WELCOME TO THE
JUNE SIX TWENTY TWENTY THREE
REGULAR MEETING ON NAVY TEST.
NO, I'M STILL ON THAT ONE
SOMEBODY CHECK I'M JUST GOING
TO KEEP WAITING UNTIL I GO GET
MY KEEP GOING.
I CAN HEAR MYSELF.
OK, WELCOME JUNE SIX TWENTY
TWENTY THREE REUNION OF OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION AND DENHA
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED DENHA AGENDA
PROVIDED MISKELLY WHAT YOU CALL
THE ROLE
CERTAINLY NOTING THAT
THIS EVENING COMMISSIONER
RANDALL, COMMISSIONER APRON'S
AND COMMISSIONER MILLS' HAVE
NOTED THEIR ABSENCE.
COMMISSIONER WISCH HERE MR.
CLARK THE COMMISSIONER HERE
NEVER DOES APPEAR BEFORE
HAMMERSCHMIDT YOUR CONSCIOUS
OF IT HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT YOU HAVE
SIX MEMBERS SO THAT MEANS IT
WOULD REQUIRE AN AFFIRMATIVE
VOTE OF ALL OF YOU TO PASS OVER
A POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION ON
ANY ITEM.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF GENTLEMEN, MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER ANY DISCUSSION
ON MOTION C NONE.
I WAS GIVEN THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I ANYBOTS MOTION CARRIES ME
I HAVE A MOTION TO IMPROVE THE
MINUTES OF MAY 16TH TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY I SHALL
SECOND IT BY YOUR DISH BY
DISCUSSION IN THE MINUTES
SEEING NONE OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE I I I
OPPOSE AND MOTION CARRIES NEXT
UP REPORTS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION INCLUDING CITY
COUNCIL PLAYING COMMISSIONER
FOR OFFICERS COMMITTEES AND
WRITTEN COMMUNICATION SO
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH AND I THINK
REPORT I DO COUNCIL UNANIMOUSLY
PASSED THE PRIORITIZATION
OF ZONINGS ALONG PLIMOTH AND
WASHTENAW SO REZONING TO TAKE
ONE SO THAT WILL COME BACK TO
US AND WE CAN DO IT WITHOUT
EXTENSIVE HAND-WRINGING OVER
ITS IMPERFECT BECAUSE IT IS
BETTER THAN THE CURRENT ZONING
AND WE ALSO PASSED A RESOLUTION
THAT MIGHT OR MIGHT NOT AFFECT
THIS BODY THAT HAS TO DO WITH
SEEKING INCENTIVES TO FOSTER
GREEN DEVELOPMENT AND THOSE ARE
INCENTIVES POSSIBLY IN THE
NATURE OF FEES BUT ALSO IN THE
NATURE OF PROCESS BECAUSE WE'RE
HEARING A LOT ABOUT THAT AND WE
PASSED SOMETHING THAT I DON'T
KNOW IF IT WOULD INTEREST YOU
ALL BUT WE DID REPEAL A PORTION
OF THE BUILDING CODE THAT
REQUIRES LANDLORDS TO PROVIDE
VOTER REGISTRATION INFORMATION
AND I BET I FORGOT SOMETHING
MR. LEONARD, I'LL JUST ADD ONE
THING.
THERE WAS AN AMENDMENT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR TWO
ONE ONE ONE PACARD.
THERE'S A PROPOSAL BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION A WHILE AGO
THE PETITIONER ASKED AND AND
RECEIVED AN AMENDMENT TO REDUCE
THE SOLAR REQUIREMENT ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE
KILOWATT HOURS KILOWATT SYSTEM
TO A ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY OR
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN
KILOWATT SYSTEM.
SO THAT WAS ONE OTHER CHANGE BY
A CONSENT AGENDA ITEM.
IT WAS INDEED I DID NOT STUDY
CAREFULLY SO GREAT THAT THE
PETITIONERS CONTINUED TO COMMIT
TO A LARGE AMOUNT OF SOLAR
OUTSIDE OF ANY REGULATORY
REQUIREMENTS WHERE I COULD
RIGHT.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
REPORTS?
PROPERTY MANAGER MISKELLY YES.
YOUR 630 WORKING SESSION YOU
WILL HERE TO PREPARE TO
PREPARED CONFERENCES ONE FOR
ONE TWENTY PACKARD AND ANOTHER
FOR TWENTY NINE THIRTY FIVE
BARGELLO FIVE AND IN RESPONSE
TO ACTION BY COUNCIL LAST NIGHT
THERE WILL BE A PREVIEW OF A
REZONING PROPOSAL FOR THE
PLYMOUTH WASHINGTON
HEADQUARTERS TO TAKE ONE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT FOR HIM THE
ONE TIME AND I HAVE TO TALK YOU
ME CHAIRMAN OF THIS LAST MONTH
THE HOUSE OF COMMONS VOTED TO
DISBAND AND THEN THAT WAS
APPROVED BY COUNCIL LAST NIGHT.
SO THE WORK WILL BE TAKEN BY
PARKE'S I BELIEVE AND WITH CITY
STAFF SUPPORT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE ON
THE BOARD.
OH YEAH.
THAT'S THE IMPORTANT THING.
WELL, BUT WE HAD A LIAISON TO
THE COUNCIL COMMENTS AND SO WE
NO LONGER WILL NEED THAT.
SO I'M ALL IN ON THE MOST
OF THE HOUSING CRISIS IN THE
MINUTES.
OK, ANYONE ELSE OK NOW WE'RE
MOVING ON TO A PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE DO HAVE SOME WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS AS WELL BUT THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS
TO SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED ON THE PUBLIC SHARING
OF THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE CAN FEATURE WHEN VIEWING
LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEDIATED NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USE
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER.
MY NAME IS AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH A WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
DO ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUND SO WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD OR
PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME.
SEE NO ONE.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ASK THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
?
THERE'S ONE HAND RAISED ADAM
YES.
GAVAGE YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION.
THIS IS ADAM SHEPHERD'S
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE
THE FOURTH WARD AND I NOTICED
ON YOUR AGENDA TONIGHT I'M NOT
GOING TO SPEAK TO THE SPECIFIC
ITEM RIGHT NOW.
THERE'S YET ANOTHER PROPOSAL
FOR A DRIVE THROUGH AND I'M
JUST I'M JUST WISHING THAT YOU
COULD GET IT ON YOUR WORK PLAN
TO ELIMINATE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR DRIVE THRU
AND JUST MAKE IT LIKE IT.
NO DRIVE THROUGH IS IN ANN
ARBOR.
I THINK IT'S JUST KIND OF A
WASTE OF TIME FOR PEOPLE TO
HAVE TO KEEP CALLING IN AND AND
SAYING, YOU KNOW, I DON'T
APPROVE YET ANOTHER RULE
WHETHER IT'S A BANK OR A
RESTAURANT OR WHATEVER IT GOES
AGAINST OUR STATED GOALS AS A
CITY IN A TWO ZERO AS WELL AS
MOVING TOGETHER TOWARD DIVISION
ZERO.
SO PLEASE ELIMINATE THAT.
YES ENTIRELY AND ALSO DON'T
APPROVE ANY MORE DRIVE THRU.
>> THANK YOU MADAM.
CHAIR, THERE ARE NO OTHER
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
SO WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD BY
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION ON WEDNESDAY JUNE
TWENTY FIRST TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AT SEVEN P.M. TWENTY SIX
SEVENTY TO TWENTY SIX NINETY
ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD TWENTY
SIX SEVENTY AND TWENTY 690
BRISLING LANE ROAD FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL A REQUEST TO
REZONE THESE TWO PARCELS
TOTALING APPROXIMATELY ONE
POINT SIX ACRES FROM R-1 SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING TO
OARFISH DISTRICT ZONING.
NO NEW DEVELOPMENT IS BEING
PROPOSED AND SECONDLY CONTINUED
PUBLIC HEARING FOR SIXTEEN ON
ONE S STATE STREET S TOWN
PROJECT REZONING SITE PLAN AND
STREET VACATION FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL A PROJECT WITH
THREE PETITIONS TO REDEVELOP
THE BLOCK BOUNDED BY SOUTH
STATE STREET WHITE STREET HENRY
STREET IN STANTON STREET ONE
PETITION TO REASONABLE BLOCK
OF TEN PARCELS FROM OUR 4C TO
SEE ONE A ZONING WITH
CONDITIONS ANOTHER SITE PLANNED
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A TWO HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
MIXED USE BUILDING AND A
PETITION TO VACATE THE PUBLIC
ALLEY IN THE BLOCK.
THANK YOU AS BEFORE I'LL
RECUSING MYSELF FOR THE SECOND
HEARING FOR THE NEXT MEETING
NOW WE MOVE ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS AND SO THE FIRST ON
THE AGENDA WE ARE GOING TO LOOK
AT THE PETITION PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
FIVE PERMITTED USES TO DEFINE
AND ALLOW BANQUET HALL USED IN
MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF FROM
THIS PARTICULAR HEARING SIMPLY
BECAUSE THE PETITIONERS MY
EMPLOYER.
THANK YOU.
I HAD TO STAFF SO NOW IS A FINE
TIME.
THIS JUST MEANS THAT THE ANY
MOTION THIS WILL FAIL.
HOWEVER IT CAN STILL BE
FORWARDED TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
THEIR CONSIDERATION AND YOU
HAVE A QUORUM TO CONTINUE
CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
OK, THANK YOU.
OK WE'RE READY
.
NO THANK YOU.
>> THIS IS A
USED TO TWO
SCREENS SURVIVE UM BEFORE YOU
THIS EVENING IS A A PETITION
THAT IS PART PETITION AND PART
STAFF ROCK'EM STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE .
THE PETITION WAS TO ADD EVENT
SPACE.
IT ASKED THAT EVENT SPACES BE
ALLOWED IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT.
IT DESCRIBED THEM THE DESIRE
WAS A PLACE FOR CELEBRATION
CEREMONIES, WEDDINGS,
RECEPTIONS AND SIMILAR
FUNCTIONS AND THE BENEFITS ARE
TO INCLUDE IT'S A COMPLIMENTARY
USE TO OTHER DISTRICT USES.
IT WILL INCREASE THE ADAPTIVE
REUSE OF EXISTING BUILDINGS AND
STRENGTHEN OUR LOCAL ECONOMY
AND SENSE OF COMMUNITY.
>> BUT WHEN THE PLANNERS GOT A
HOLD OF THIS WE AGREED THAT
THERE IS A NEED FOR A DISTINCT
LAND USE TYPE EVENT.
THIS TYPE OF EVENT SPACES ARE
CURRENTLY PERMITTED WHEREVER
THERE IS A RESTAURANT IT IS IT
CAN BE CONSIDERED A TEMPORARY
RESTAURANT IF YOU WILL BUT IT
IS NOT SPECIFICALLY DEFINED IN
THE ORDINANCE.
WE FIELD A LOT OF PHONE CALLS
AND THERE IS CLEAR A CLEAR NEED
FOR A DISTINCT LAND USE TYPE
FOR THIS SORT OF ASSEMBLY USE
AT THE STAFF WOULD LIKE TO
THINK MORE COMPREHENDS ABOUT
THIS PETITION.
IT SHOULD NOT BE EXCLUSIVE TO
THE OFFICE DISTRICT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
APPROPRIATE FOR ALL OF THE
MIXED USE DISTRICTS AND WE'D
LIKE TO THINK MORE CONSISTENTLY
USING COMMON COMMON LANGUAGE TO
GET OUR POINT AND OUR LAND USE
CLEARLY ACROSS.
SO THEREFORE STAFF WE RECOMMEND
THAT THE ZONING ORDINANCE BE
AMENDED TO ADD A BANQUET HALL,
USE.
THIS IS A DEFINITION THAT IS
USED IN MOST OTHER ZONING
ORDINANCES AS OPPOSED TO EVENT
SPACE EVENT SPACE AND A SIMILAR
TERM EVENT VENUE HAVE A MORE
HAVE HAVE OTHER COMMON
DEFINITIONS WHICH I DON'T THINK
ARE QUITE RIGHT FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
BANQUET HALL IS ALSO MENTIONED
IN THE BUILDING CODE AND I
THINK THERE IS THERE'S A DESIRE
BY SOME TO SORT OF MORE ALIGNED
OF ZONING ORDINANCE WITH THE
BUILDING CODE .
ONE ASPECT OF THAT IS USING
COMMON COMMONLY DEFINED TERMS
WILL GREATLY WILL GREATLY HELP
ALL PARTIES INVOLVED HAVE THAT
SHARED UNDERSTANDING.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO DEFINE
BANQUET HALL AS A BUILDING OR
PORTION OF A BUILDING MADE
AVAILABLE FOR TEMPORARY
ASSEMBLY OR GATHERING OF PEOPLE
SUCH AS A CONFERENCE OR MEETING
PARTY WEDDING RECEPTION
FUNDRAISER DISPLAY OR OTHER
SIMILAR OCCASION WHICH MAY OR
MAY NOT HAVE FOOD AND BEVERAGE
SERVICE.
THIS IS WHERE A RESTAURANT CAN
HOST A BANQUET BUT A BANQUET
HALL IS NOT NECESSARILY A
RESTAURANT.
IT DOES NOT YOU DO NOT ALWAYS
HAVE TO HAVE FOOD AS PART
OF YOUR MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES AND SO FORTH.
THESE ARE THE ZONING ORDINANCE,
THE UNIFIED VELTMAN
CODE ACTUALLY HAS HAS THREE
SORT OF LAND USE CATEGORIES NOW
THESE ARE INFORMAL GROUPINGS
BUT THIS TERM IS USED
THROUGHOUT THROUGHOUT THE
THROUGHOUT THE UDC AND THAT IS
RESIDENTIAL CIRCLED ON THE
SCREEN MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL SPECIAL PURPOSE
WE AND SO WE WITH THESE
AMENDMENTS WE'RE SUGGESTING
THAT THE THAT BY INCLUDING
BANQUET HALL USE IN THE OFFICES
AS WELL AS ALL OF THE MIXED USE
DISTRICTS WILL BRING THEM ALL
SORT OF MORE CLOSER CLOSER IN
ALIGNMENT THE INTENT STATEMENT
OF THE OFFICE DISTRICT DOES
TALK ABOUT HOW IT SHOULD BE A
BUFFER BETWEEN THE
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL USE
PURPOSE DISTRICT USES AND
RESIDENTIAL USES.
BUT IT IS BUT IT IS JUST BUT
ONE OF THE MIXED USE DISTRICTS
AND WE BELIEVE THAT ALL OF THE
MIXED USE DISTRICTS CAN
FUNCTION AS THIS TYPE OF BUFFER
AND BY ADDING A BANQUET HALL TO
MIXED MIXED USE IN GENERAL AND
OFFICE SPECIFICALLY WE ARE NOT
DIMINISHING ITS ABILITY TO ACT
AS THAT BUFFER.
IF YOU READ CLOSELY WE BELIEVE
THAT IT DOESN'T SAY THAT OFFICE
SHOULD BUFFER RESIDENTIAL, THAT
RESIDENTIAL NEEDS TO BE
ENCAPSULATED BY THE OFFICE
DISTRICT RATHER ONE OF THE
MIXED-USE DISTRICTS SHOULD
ENCAPSULATE THE NONRESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS IF THEY ARE IN CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO THE RESIDENTIAL
AND WHILE WE'RE AT IT WE ARE
PROPOSING SOME ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENTS AGAIN TO BRING THE
OFFICE DISTRICT MORE IN LINE
WITH THE OTHER MIXED USE
DISTRICTS.
WE ARE RECOMMENDING THAT THE
PERSONAL SERVICES CATEGORY HAVE
ITS LIMITATION TO JUST THE
BEAUTY SALON PORTION OF IT BE
REMOVED AND PERSONAL SERVICES
BE ALLOWED IN THE OLD DISTRICT
.
ALSO THE FRATERNITIES
SORORITIES, STUDENT
COOPERATIVES, CLUB HEADQUARTERS
COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY CENTERS,
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY, PRIVATE
K-12 SCHOOLS AND INDOOR
RECREATION BE SORT OF PROMOTED
IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT FROM
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES TWO
PRIMARY USES.
WE ARE ALSO PROPOSING THAT THE
BROAD TERM OF VETERINARY
KENNELS AND ANIMAL BOARDING BE
SPLIT UP AND A NEW USE BE SPLIT
UP INTO VETERINARY OFFICES AND
KENNELS AND ANIMAL BOARDING THE
VETERINARY OFFICE.
A DEFINITION IS PROPOSED AND IT
IS PROPOSED TO BE ALLOWED IN
MIXED USE DISTRICTS JUST AS
MEDICAL, DENTAL OR JUST PEOPLE
HEALTH CARE PET HEALTH CARE.
WE GO IN THERE AND THEN KENNELS
AND ANIMAL BOARDING WOULD
REMAIN AS CURRENTLY REGULATED.
NO CHANGES TO THAT ALTHOUGH WE
HAD TO SEPARATE OUT THAT
DEFINITION AND FINALLY
RECOMMENDING THAT TRADE IN
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS ALSO BE
INCLUDED IN THE OLD DISTRICT.
I STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF IT.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS BUT I THINK I
COVERED IT.
THANKS.
GREAT.
UH, THANK YOU.
SO NOW WE WILL OPEN UP THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
PETITION ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED DC
AMENDMENTS.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO TAKE DURING THE
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
PLUS OUR NINE AFSC BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE PUBLIC FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING IDEE
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX THREE SIX
CALLERS WILL RAISE YOUR HAND IS
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
IF ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB
LINK YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA NEW ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS TO ME HERE
YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OR PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME SEE
NO ONE.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AT
THIS TIME.
OK WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL READ THE
MOTION UH CITY THE INNER CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
FOLLOWING AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT SECTION FIVE POINT
ONE FIVE POINT ONE PRIMARY USES
PERMIT OR AMEND BANQUET HALL
RESTAURANT BAR FOOD SERVICE
FRATERNITIES SORORITIES STUDENT
COOPERATIVE HOUSING CLUB
HEADQUARTERS COMMUNITY CENTER
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY PRIVATE K
THROUGH 12 SCHOOL INDOOR
RECREATION VETERINARY KENNEL
ANIMAL BOARDING AND TRADE
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE FIVE POINT TWO SISTER
USES TO ELIMINATE RESTAURANT
BAR FOOD SERVICES AND
ACCESSORIES USE AND THE OFFICE
DISTRICT SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
SIX POINT THREE M TO ELIMINATE
USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
PERSONAL SERVICES AND SECTION
FIVE POINT THREE SEVEN POINT TO
SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS DEFINE
BANQUET HALL AND REDEFINE
VETERINARY KENNEL AND ANIMAL
BOARDING MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WITH
ANYONE IS I JUST HAVE A COUPLE
OF CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS
WHERE MY UNDERSTANDING WAS
FUZZY SO IS IT OOPS SORRY ABOUT
UM IS IT THE CASE THAT THESE
KINDS OF EVENTS SPACES ARE NOT
CURRENTLY PERMITTED IN ALL
MIXED USE DISTRICTS BUT ONLY
CURRENTLY PERMITTED WHERE
THERE'S A RESTAURANT?
IS THAT RIGHT?
YES.
ALL THERE ARE EIGHT NINE OF THE
RESTAURANTS ARE PERMITTED IN
LET ME BE FACTUAL ONE, TWO,
THREE, FOUR OR FIVE SIX, SEVEN,
EIGHT, NINE.
THERE ARE TEN MIXED USE.
THE RESTAURANTS ARE PERMITTED
AND NINE OF THE OH THEREFORE
THESE EVENT SPACES CAN OCCUR IN
NINE OF THE TEN THIS WOULD THIS
WOULD MAKE IT TEN FOR TEN AND
OH BEING THE TENTH OR BEING OK
SO THEY'RE ALREADY PERMITTED SO
THE OTHER SO THE THING IS I WAS
JUST TRYING TO OFFER ALREADY
PERMITTED PEOPLE DON'T
UNDERSTAND THAT.
NO IT'S NOT APPARENTLY IN AND
BY THE PLETHORA OF EVIDENCE
DOES NOT INTUITIVE YES.
OK SO THAT'S GREAT.
SO SO WHAT IS HAPPENING IS BYE
BYE INTRODUCING THIS NEW NAME
WE ARE FLAGGING THAT THIS IS
AND HAS BEEN PERMITTED IN ALL
THE MIXED YOU IN NINE OF THE
TEN MIXED USES
AND WE'RE
EXTENDING IT TO THE TENTH WHICH
IS OFFICE THAT'S WHERE WE GET
THE BIG GAIN IN ADAPTIVE REUSE
RIGHT ALONG WITH MAYBE A
BOWLING ALLEY OR SOMETHING THAT
WILL GO INTO THESE DEFUNCT
OFFICE SPACES.
I WAS DELIGHTED TO ENDURE I DO
NOT KNOW HOW TO MAKE THAT STOP
OTHER AND TURN OFF MY NEVER TO
DO IT.
YEAH.
IS IT THAT OH THAT OH THAT UH
SILENT MODE SORRY OK OK SO AND
THEN THERE WAS I THINK NO
THAT'S THE ONLY THING I WANTED
TO KNOW FOR SURE.
OK THAT'S COOL I GOT IT
ANYWHERE ELSE.
OK WE'LL TAKE A QUICK LEFT TURN
AND TALK ABOUT PARKING.
THERE'S NO PARKING REQUIREMENTS
FOR RESTAURANTS AND SO WELL
WHAT I DIDN'T SEE IS THE
PARKING TABLE AMENDED TO
INCLUDE THESE NEW CATEGORIES.
HOW WOULD STAFF INTERPRET IF
SOMETHING CAME ABOUT LIKE
THERE'S NO MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM
SO WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO REFER TO
THE TABLE CORRECT.
WE'D CURRENTLY WE'D USE THE
CLOSEST GOOD POINT CURRENTLY
WE'D USE THIS THE CLOSEST
ANALOGOUS ONE IF IT IS LOCATED
IN A SHOPPING CENTER THEN THE
MAXIMUM FOR THE SHOPPING CENTER
WOULD APPLY THE OFFICE DISTRICT
OFFICE USES HAVE A PARKING
MAXIMUM AS WELL.
I WOULD CONSIDER ADDING IT TO
THE PARKING TABLE OR PERHAPS
ANOTHER GENERATION OF OF
CHANGES TO THE PARKING TABLE
WOULD FURTHER CONSOLIDATE OR
SIMPLIFY THE THE LACK
OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND THE
PARKING MAXIMUMS.
OK, AND THEN MAYBE THIS IS
BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE TOO MUCH
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW AS WE CHANGED
OUR PARKING OH WE DON'T HAVE
PARKING MAXIMUMS FOR
RESTAURANTS AND ALL THE OTHER
DISTRICTS SO IT WOULDN'T HAPPEN
HERE IN THE OFFICE AS WELL.
BUT THIS IS A VERY NUANCED ONE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW OFTEN BUT THE
VETINARI PANEL HAS A PARKING
MAXIMUM OF ONE ONE FOUR TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET.
SO WOULD YOU STILL INTERPRET IT
THAT WAY EVEN THOUGH THOSE
DEFINITIONS ARE SPLIT UP THAT A
VETERINARY CLINIC WOULD HAVE A
PARKING MAXIMUM OF ONE SPACE
PER 250 SQUARE FEET EVEN THOUGH
THAT TABLE STILL COMBINED IF
NOT IN THE CDC?
I I'M THINKING WELL THE THE
KENNEL COMPONENT OF IT IS NOT
IS NOT FUNCTIONALLY CHANGING.
RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD STILL APPLY BUT
WOULD YOU BE LIKE WOULD YOU BE
COMPARING IT TO LIKE MORE OF A
MEDICAL OFFICE COMPARATIVE
INSTEAD OF COMPARING IT BACK TO
A KENNEL WHEN YOU ARE LOOKING
AT WHAT PART THE THE VETINARI
OBFUSCATION.
YEAH IT WOULD BE IT WOULD FALL
UNDER THE EITHER THE MEDICAL
DENTAL OR JUST GENERAL OFFICE.
IT WOULD BE IT IT IS BECOMING A
SUBSET OFFICE OK SO I GUESS
THOSE ARE JUST KIND OF THINGS
THAT EITHER I GUESS I'M CURIOUS
FROM STAFF IF THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE COULD EITHER MAKE SURE
TO GET WELL SO MAYBE A COUPLE
OF PROCESS QUESTIONS WE'RE
GOING TO TECHNICALLY DENY US
TONIGHT BUT IT MOVES FORWARD.
COUNCIL HAS TO ACTUALLY MAKE A
FINAL DECISION TO ADOPT THIS
AND SO THEY MAY SEE WHATEVER
VOTE NO AND THEN MOVE FORWARD.
AND I'M CURIOUS RELATIVE TO
THIS PARKING IT'S JUST A FEW
LINES.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S WE SHOULD
BE UPDATING IT HERE IF IT
SHOULD MOVE ON BUT I JUST SEE I
THINK IT'S UP TO THE WILL
OF THE COMMISSION BECAUSE IF
YOU WANT TO SHARE THAT AS A
SUGGESTION, YOU CAN PASS THE
AMENDMENT AND THE ENTIRE MOTION
WOULD STILL FAIL BUT THE
INFORMATION WOULD BE CARRIED
FORWARD.
OK, SO IT'S UP TO YOU WHETHER
YOU WANT TO BE REFLECTED IN
YOUR DISCUSSION OR IF YOU'D
LIKE TO MEMORIALIZE IT IS AN
AMENDED MOTION.
I GUESS I'M CONSERVATIVE LIKE
SORTING OUT THE ACTUAL MATH AT
THE TABLE VERSUS LIKE MAKING A
RECOMMENDATION FOR STAFF TO
REVIEW IT PRIOR TO GOING TO
CITY COUNCIL AS THE OTHER PART
FORWARD I WOULD SAY THE REPORT
I WOULD SAY JUST IN YOUR
DISCUSSION BE CLEAR IF YOU ARE
LOOKING FOR A VERY SPECIFIC
AMENDMENT JUST FOR DISCUSSION,
YOU KNOW VETINARI OFFICERS
SHOULD HAVE A MAXIMUM OF TWO
PARKING SPACES.
YES.
FOR DISCUSSIONS OR IF YOU ARE
JUST LOOKING FOR THOSE USES TO
BE MENTIONED AND CLARIFIED IN
THE PARKING STANDARDS AND THEN
WE CAN IMPLEMENT WHATEVER THAT
CONSENSUS IS.
SO I WOULD LIKE I WOULD JUST
LIKE STAFF TO REVIEW THE
VETERAN VETERINARY LIKE INCLUDE
CHANGES BEFORE IT GOES TO CITY
COUNCIL THAT THE VETERINARY
CLINIC HAS A LINE ITEM IN OUR
PARKING TABLE AND THAT MATCHES
TO OUR OFFICE.
IF THAT DOESN'T HAVE A MAXIMUM
WHERE DOES THOSE TWO MATCH?
IF YOU KNOW IF ONCE YOU
RECONCILE THAT THAT ACTUALLY
MAKES SENSE.
I TRUST STAFF TO REVIEW AND
MAKE A HEALTHY RECOMMENDATION
TO OUR GOALS ABOUT PARKING AND
THEN THE SAME FOR THE BANQUET
HALL BAR TO MATCH RESTAURANT TO
BE ADDED AS A LINE ITEM WHICH
CURRENTLY HAS NO PARKING
MAXIMUM BUT JUST SO THAT THOSE
ARE CLEARLY INCLUDED IN THE
IMMANENCE SO THAT OUR USE TABLE
AND OUR PARKING USE TABLE MATCH
THAT AS NOTED JUST I DON'T KNOW
IF IT'S ON THE MENU BECAUSE I
REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU GET THE NUMBERS RIGHT LIKE
FROM A STAFF PERSPECTIVE
INSTEAD OF LIKE DIGGING INTO
THOSE DETAILS AT THE TABLE HERE
I I THINK IT'S I THINK I BRING
UP BIGGER QUESTIONS PROBABLY
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
REALLY NEED TO THINK ABOUT IS
RESTRUCTURING OUR PARKING.
WE DID WHEN WE ELIMINATED
MINIMUM WE SORT OF WENT IN WE
PULLED OUT A COLUMN AND AS I
THINK THESE ARE GREAT POINTS,
WE I DON'T KNOW THAT WE DIDN'T
SPEND A LOT OF TIME I GUESS I
DON'T SPEAK FOR ALEXIS AND BUT
WE MEAN WHAT IT TELLS ME IS WE
MIGHT WANT TO EVOLVE TO OUR
PARKING TABLE TO INSTEAD
OF TRYING TO ARTICULATE ALL THE
USES, HAVE AN ANSWER TO THAT.
IT MORPHS INTO THE ONLY ONLY
THE USES THAT ARE LISTED THERE
HAVE SOME STANDARD BEYOND NO
MINIMUM PARKING IS REQUIRED AND
WE'RE NOT THERE YET.
SO YEAH, I'VE I UNDERSTAND
WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM.
I WANT TO BE HONEST WE DIDN'T
NOTICE THE CHANGES THE PARKING
SECTION SO IT'S CONCEIVABLE I
MIGHT COME BACK TO YOU AND SAY
HEY I THINK IT'S WORTHWHILE FOR
US TO ACTUALLY PRESENT THESE TO
YOU BUT YEAH, I THINK IT'S A
GREAT OBSERVATION.
YEAH.
IT'S THE ONLY KIND
OF HESITATION I HAVE IS THAT A
BANQUET HALL IS CAN BE A LOT
OF PARKING BUT IN VERY SMALL
CHUNKS AND I WOULD HATE FOR OUR
OUR OUR LAND USE TO CHANGE
SIGNIFICANTLY LIKE A BLACK
FRIDAY PARKING IF WE DON'T HAVE
PARKING TICKETS.
I JUST WANT TO CLEAR IT UP.
WE'RE NOT PROPOSING TO ADD ANY
MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
YEAH, YEAH.
BUT IF WE DON'T HAVE MAXIMUMS A
DEVELOPER MAY DECIDE TO BUILD A
GIANT PARKING LOT TO SUPPORT A
LARGE EVENT SPACE.
I GET THAT.
BUT AGAIN THAT'S ANOTHER
CONVERSATION WE HAVE A LOT
OF USERS THAT DON'T HAVE
MAXIMUM PARKING.
I THINK I SEE WHERE YOU'RE
COMING FROM.
THIS ONE MIGHT BE MORE PRONE TO
THAT.
YEAH.
BIGGER SIMPLY MORE CARS THAN A
LOT OF OUR OTHER USES ON THE
TABLE.
SO IT MIGHT JUST COME UP IN
QUESTION CROSS-BUSINESS BECAUSE
I DON'T I WOULD BE CONCERNED
WITH KEEPING A HIGHER INTENSITY
WITHOUT A PARKING MAXIMUM FOR
VERY LONG ON OUR ADC BUT I
THINK THAT THIS IS HOPEFULLY
THAT REALLY I THINK IT'S A
GREAT INCREMENTAL CHANGE FOR
THAT ADAPTIVE REUSE THAT I KEEP
TALKING ABOUT SO ALREADY
COVERED IN DC ONE.
YEAH, THOSE ARE MY COMMENTS.
ANYONE ELSE READY FOR A VOTE?
STEPH, CAN YOU RECALL, UH,
COMMISSIONER RACHEL YES.
SHARKWATER YES.
THAT'S ONE MORE DISH.
YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, I'M SORRY.
YES.
THIS MOTION FAILS.
GREAT BECAUSE SIX VOTES ARE
REQUIRED TO UH, MOVE ANY ACTION
FORWARD TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
HOWEVER, THIS ITEM WILL ADVANCE
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION.
I TRUST COMMISSIONER DESH TO
RELAY TO HELP.
OK, WE MOVE ON TO ITEM EIGHT B
FOR REGULAR BUSINESS.
THE PETITION WHICH INCLUDES
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
OH YES.
WELCOME BACK.
COMMERCIALLY I PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO ZERO
LANDSCAPING SCREENING AND
BUFFER'S TO AMEND THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFERS AND REORGANIZE
FOR IMPROVED CONSISTENCY.
SO START WITH STAFF REPORT MR.
LEO.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
AS I MENTIONED THESE ARE
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE SECTION FIVE TWENTY
LANDSCAPING SCREENING AND
BUFFER'S THERE WE GO.
I AM PURPOSELY GOING TO MAKE
THIS PRESENTATION OUT OF ORDER
OF THE OUT OF NUMERICAL ORDER
IN THE ORDINANCE AND THE STAFF
REPORT WHICH FOLLOWS THE
NUMERICAL ORDER.
FIRST I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT
SECTION FIVE TWENTY POINT FOUR
CONFLICTING LAND AS BUFFERS
CURRENT TITLE THEN FIVE TWENTY
POINT THREE VEHICLE USE AREA
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING AND
FINALLY FIVE TWENTY POINT SIX
REFUGES AND RECYCLING CONTAINER
SCREENING.
WE START WITH SECTION FIVE
TWENTY POINT FOUR CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFERS.
THEY ARE REQUIRED IN FIVE CASES
AND THERE'S A LOT GOING ON ON
THIS SLIDE AND IT'S TO REALLY
ENGAGE YOUR BRAIN AND ALSO MAKE
SURE YOU PAY ATTENTION TO ME.
THERE ARE OTHER APPLICABILITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR A CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER WHICH WE
SOMETIMES CALL A CLUB CLUB.
THEY ARE REQUIRED WHEN YOU HAVE
A VEHICLE USE AREA ADJACENT TO
A PUBLIC PARK OR LAND
PRINCIPALLY USED OR ZONED FOR
RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES.
THEY ARE ALSO REQUIRED WHEN YOU
HAVE A REFUSE RECYCLING
CONTAINER ADJACENT TO THE SAME
THEY ARE REQUIRED FOR THE
PORTION OF A PARCEL ZONED O R E
L ANY OF THE CS OR ANY OF THE
MS ABUTTING THE SAME PUBLIC
PARK OR PARTIAL PRINCIPAL
USDA'S OWN FOR RESIDENTIAL THEY
ARE REQUIRED FORTH FOR THE
PORTION OF A PARCEL ZONED R
THREE OR FOUR WHICH ARE
MULTIFAMILY ZONING DISTRICTS
WHEN THEY ARE ADJACENT TO LAND
USED OR ZONED FOR RESIDENTIAL
PURPOSES AND FINALLY THEY'RE
REQUIRED IN THE TCDD ONE OR ANY
OF THE TWO DISTRICTS WHEN YOU
ABOUT A RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT OR THE DISTRICT AND
CONCEPTUALLY WHAT WE'RE DOING
IS THIS FOR ONE AND TWO NO REAL
CHANGES.
WE ARE JUST MOVING THOSE
CIRCLED IN RED.
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE ACTUALLY
TALKING ABOUT CHANGING.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
ELIMINATING THE REQUIREMENT FOR
A CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
WHEN A BUDDING LAND PRINCIPAL
IS USED FOR RESIDENTIAL THE
REQUIREMENT TO HAVE A BUFFER
FROM LAND THAT IS ZONED FOR
RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES REMAINS
AND WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
ELIMINATING THE REQUIREMENT TO
BUFFER A PARCEL ZONED R THREE
OR FOUR FROM LAND THAT IS ZONED
OR USED FOR RESIDENTIAL
PURPOSES.
THE FIFTH WHEN WE SEE ONE
ZONING ABUTS RESIDENTIAL ZONING
OR THAT IS BEING COMBINED WITH
NO COMBINED WITH NUMBER THREE.
SO THE CHANGES LOOK LIKE I MEAN
THAT.
SO IN TERMS OF CLUB
APPLICABILITY I MENTIONED ONE
OF THE REQUIREMENTS IS A CLUB
BE PROVIDED FOR MOST OF THE
MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS AND
SOME OF THE NONRESIDENTIAL
SPECIAL PURPOSE ONES WHEN YOU
ARE A BUDDING A PARK OR LAND
USED OR ZONED RESIDENTIAL, THIS
MAKES IT VERY DEPENDENT ON
OUTSIDE VARIABLES.
A PROJECT IN COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT MIGHT INTRODUCE MIXED
BUT INTRODUCE EXCUSES
RESIDENTIAL IN THE SECOND OR
THIRD FLOOR OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT SWITCH OVER TO ADAPTIVE
REUSE.
THAT MEANS THAT THE PARCELS
NEXT TO IT AUTOMATICALLY BECOME
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE THEY DID
NOT PROVIDE CONFLATING LATEST
BUFFER SIMILAR IT GOES BOTH
WAYS OPPOSITE IT ALSO REQUIRES
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS TO BE
BUFFERED FROM MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENTS.
I THINK FOR THE MOST PART IF
YOU GO WITH PERCENTAGES YOU
MIGHT HAVE OFFICE I'M SORRY
COMMERCIAL RETAIL ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
IN THE IDEAL SCENARIO A FLOOR
OF COMMERCIAL ONE OR TWO FLOORS
OF OFFICE AND THEN UPPER
STORIES OF RESIDENTIAL IN THE
IDEAL CLASSIC MIXED USE MODEL.
BUT IN TERMS OF PERCENTAGES
IT'S A RESIDENT THAT'S
PRINCIPALLY USED RESIDENTIAL.
YOU'D HAVE ALL YOUR MIXED USE
BUILDINGS UP AND DOWN YOUR
CORRIDORS BUFFER FROM EACH
OTHER AND ALSO WHEN YOU ARE
REQUIRING A WHEN WE ARE
CURRENTLY REQUIRING A BUFFER
BETWEEN OUR THREE AND AFTER
THAT MEANS THAT YOU REQUIRE A
BUFFER BETWEEN IDENTICAL USES
AND OUR SINGLE LOT AND THEN OUR
FOR DISTRICT WHICH AROUND THE
CAMPUS AREA THE WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE ZONED ARE
FORESE.
THEY SOMETIMES GET REDEVELOPED
AND EACH ONE OF THEM WOULD NEED
TO PROVIDE A CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFER AND IN THAT CASE
THAT BUFFER WOULD BE THIRTY
FEET WIDE THIRTY FEET MINIMUM
BECAUSE FIFTEEN FEET ON ONE
PARCEL FIFTEEN FEET ON ANOTHER
AND THAT SEEMS TO DIMINISH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER RATHER
THAN ACTUALLY PROMOTE I THINK
THAT MAYBE THE INTENTIONS WERE
GOOD BUT THE WAY THIS IS
WRITTEN IT SEEMS THAT THERE WAS
A DESIRE TO PRIORITIZE ONE LAND
USE PERHAPS SINGLE FAMILY AND
BUFFER THAT FROM MULTIFORM.
BUT THE WAY IT IS WRITTEN, THE
WAY IT IS APPLIED, THE WAY IT
IS USED, WE ARE JUST BUFFERING
ALL THE SAME FROM ALL THE SAME
.
SO HERE IS THE KEY FOR MOVING,
DELETING AND COMBINING THE
MOVING THINGS ARE INGREY THE
DELETING THINGS ARE STRUCK OUT
AND THE COMBINING THINGS ARE
CIRCLED IN TERMS OF COMBINING
WE ARE TAKING THREE AND FIVE
AND WE HAVE COMBINED THEM INTO
A AND SINCE THERE'S ONE LEFT
I'M NOT GOING TO NUMBER ONE SO
WE ARE JUST MAKING SECTION FIVE
TWENTY POINT FOUR SAY A
CONFLICTING AND USE BUFFER IS
REQUIRED WHERE A PARCEL OR
PORTION THEREOF IN A MIXED USE
SPECIAL PURPOSE OR
NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
ABUTS A PUBLIC PARK OR A PARCEL
IN A RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT AND THEN THE SAME
EXACT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER STANDARDS APPLY THE SAME
WITH THE SAME PLANTING
REQUIREMENTS, THE SAME
SCREENING.
THE ONE THING WE DID THOUGH IS
CHANGE THE TITLE.
IT'S NOT REALLY A CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER ANYMORE.
IT'S CONFLICTING DISTRICT
BUFFER.
SO WE CHANGE THE HEADING THERE
AND THEN I LIKE I MENTIONED
WE'RE DOING IT OUT OF ORDER
THEN REMEMBER THE PARTS THAT WE
SAID WE WERE MOVING SO IN
SECTION FIVE TWENTY POINT THREE
WHICH IS CURRENTLY VEHICULAR
USE AREA LANDSCAPING AND
SCREENING THIS WILL BECOME
VEHICULAR USE AREA SCREENING,
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING
ADDING BY THE MENTION
OF BUFFERING AND THEN CHANGING
THE ORDER.
SO IT FOLLOWS THE ACTUAL ORDER
THE STANDARDS IT HAS IT
CURRENTLY HAS A SECTION A RIGHT
OF SCREENING, NO CHANGES THERE.
SECTION B IS THE INTERIOR
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS.
WE'VE ADDED HEADINGS AND
REORDERED THIS SECTION BUT NO
CHANGES THERE AND THEN WE'VE
ADDED C CONFLICTING USE BUFFER
AND NO CHANGES FROM THE CLUB
REQUIREMENTS EXCEPT FOR THE NEW
PLACE THE NEW HOME FOR THEM.
SAME WITH SAME SCREENING
PLANTING MATERIALS AND SAME
SCREENING AND THEN MOVING ARE
CONTINUING THE THEME IN SECTION
FIVE TWENTY POINT SIX I THINK
THERE'S A TYPO AT THE TOP
OF THE SLIDE REFUSE RECYCLING
CONTAINER SCREENING SAME ADDED
THE ADDED DIMENSION
OF BUFFERING IN THE TITLE.
THE AID COMPONENT DOES NOT
CHANGE IT IS RIGHT AWAY
SCREENING.
WE'VE ADDED A SECTION B FOR
CONFLICTING USE BUFFER.
THESE HAVE SOME SLIGHT CHANGES
FROM THE CLUB STANDARDS
SPECIFICALLY TO BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE RIGHT WAY.
SCREENING A HEDGE OR LANDFORM
BURM ARE NOT PERMITTED.
THE ONLY SCREENING YOU CAN DO
IS THE FENCE, THE SOLID FENCE
OR WALL.
OTHERWISE IT'S THE SAME IT'S
THE SAME STUFF AND SO I AM
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS OR CLARIFICATION
QUESTIONS BUT THIS CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND STAFF
RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
NOW OPEN UP THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEERSON PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED UDC AMENDMENTS WERE
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE AND USE A HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN INTERMEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL CALLERS WHO
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USE THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OVER PHONE OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA, MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
.
WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME ADDRESS
AT THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS SO ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS TIME
PUSH THE BUTTON
.
I CAN LEARN HOW TO DO THAT.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT A HOME
COURT.
I WAS GOING TO SPEAK ON THIS
ONE BUT I'M PARDON THE PUN I'M
CONFLICTED ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR CHANGE.
I I REALLY GET MR. LEO'S POINT
THAT IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
WHERE WE'RE LOOKING AT
REDEVELOPING FOR HIGHER DENSITY
AND THE FOR DISTRICTS AROUND
CAMPUS AND NEAR DOWNTOWN KIND
OF A 30 BUFFER TOTAL DOESN'T
MAKE A LOT OF SENSE.
IT'S KIND OF AN ANACHRONISM.
BUT I DISAGREE WITH YOUR
STATEMENT THAT WE'RE CURRENTLY
BUFFERING ALL THE SAME FROM ALL
THE SAME JUST BASED ON MY
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE UP IN LAKE
HURON HIGHLANDS NEIGHBORHOOD
OF PONTIAC PARAL THERE'S
NEIGHBORHOOD IS YOU KNOW, SMALL
SINGLE FAMILY RANCHES, MOSTLY
WORKING CLASS AND IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN IT WAS FACED WITH THE
COTTAGES AT BARTON GREEN
STUDENT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT,
YOU KNOW THE MOST HATED STUDENT
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN TOWN NOT
JUST BY THE NEIGHBORS BUT BY
ITS OWN RESIDENTS IF YOU CAN
BELIEVE ME, CHECK THE GOOGLE
YELP AND OTHER REVIEWS AND MY
NEIGHBORS ON SKY, THEIR FORMER
NEIGHBORS I NO LONGER LIVE
THERE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
FLOOD LIGHTS AND NOISE, THE
PARTYING, THE GARBAGE.
AND IF THEY DIDN'T HAVE THAT
CONFECTING LATINIST OFFER AND
THE DEVELOPER CHOSEN TO BUILD
RIGHT UP AGAINST
THEIR
BACKYARD, I JUST FEEL REAL BAD
FOR THEM.
SO I GUESS MY POINT IS THAT
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS OFFERING ALL
THE SAME FROM ALL THE SAME.
THESE ARE TWO VERY DIFFERENT
FOR A WHILE ACTUALLY HAVING A
SINGLE FAMILY.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT RICH PEOPLE AND THE ONE
IS OUR FORTE.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
REJECTED THIS PROPOSAL BY SEVEN
TO TWO VOTE BACK IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN CITY.
WE REJECTED IT UNANIMOUSLY.
THEY ENDED UP SUING THE CITY
AND THE CITY ENDED UP SETTLING
WITH THEM ON VERY FAVORABLE
TERMS.
THE DEVELOPER SO THAT BUILT AND
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S A NET
NEGATIVE FOR THE CITY AND FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD NEXT TO IT AND
FOR ITS OWN RESIDENTS TERRIBLE
MANAGEMENT ANYWAY.
THIS IS GETTING OFF THE SUBJECT
I GUESS I DON'T OPPOSE THIS
PARTICULAR CHANGE BUT I THINK
WE SHOULD ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IT'S
A LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLEX MAYBE
STEP PRESENTED.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE THERE ANYONE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO JUST COMMISSION
REMOTELY THERE ARE NO HANDS
RAISED AT THIS TIME.
OK, WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
MOTION THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO ZERO
POINT THREE REGULAR USE AREA
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
SECTION FIVE POINT TO ZERO
POINT FOR CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFERS IN SECTION FIVE POINT
TO ZERO POINT SIX REFUSE
RECYCLING CONTAINER SCREENING
TO AMEND THE APPLICABLE AND
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFERS
AND REORGANIZE THE SECTION FOR
IMPROVED CONSISTENCY MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WAIT A SECOND I
QUESTION THIS DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER.
I WOULD LIKE TO FOLLOW UP ON
MR. GARBER'S STATEMENT AND JUST
ASK IF I AM MISUNDERSTANDING
SOMETHING BUT THE CASE THAT YOU
DESCRIBED IS A MULTIFAMILY
DEVELOPMENT UP AGAINST AN AREA
THAT'S ZONED RESIDENTIAL.
SO A CLUB WOULD BE REQUIRED
TODAY A CLUB IS REQUIRED.
BUT IF WE MAY BECAUSE I BELIEVE
IF THAT DEVELOPMENT IS ZONED
ARE THREE OR FOUR AND I
UNDERSTAND IT IS R FOR A VAN IT
AND IT SEEMS TO ABOUT IF I
UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY IT SEEMS
TO ABOUT R-1 SOMETHING BUT ARE
THEN THE THAT DEVELOPMENT
SHOULD HAVE SHOULD HAVE I
ASSUME IT DOES HAVE A
CONFLICTING VALUES BUFFER AND
IF WE MAKE THE CHANGE IT STILL
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE IT WOULD NOT
IT WOULD NOT HAVE TO HAVE OR
WOULD NOT HAVE A BUFFER FROM R
R WOULD NOT HAVE TO GO TO FOUR
IN THAT CASE NO LINE FOUR IF
YOU WILL FROM THE PRESENTATION
I CAN PULL IT
YEAH.
IN ORDER WHAT IT SAYS NOW IS
THE PORTION OF A PARCEL IS
OWNED ARE THREE OR FOUR
ADJACENT TO A PARCEL
PRINCIPALLY USED OR ZONED FOR
RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES ALL
ENCOMPASSING.
SO THAT MEANS THAT YES, A
MULTIFAMILY WOULD NEED TO
PROVIDE A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER FROM A SINGLE FAMILY BUT
ALSO MULTIFAMILY WOULD NEED TO
PROVIDE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER ADJACENT TO MULTIFAMILY.
SO WE HAVE PROPOSED TO
ELIMINATE THAT REQUIREMENT
ENTIRELY AND NOT REQUIRE
RESIDENTIAL TO BUFFER FROM
RESIDENTIAL.
IT COULD BE DISCUSSED THAT
THERE COULD BE CHANGED SO THAT
IT'D BE MORE CLEAR THAT MULTI
FAMILY MUST BUFFER FROM SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT IT SAYS
RIGHT NOW.
IT'S ALL ENCOMPASSING AND ALL
INCLUSIVE AND WE ARE PROPOSING
THAT WE DO NOT REQUIRE
RESIDENTIAL TO BUFFER FROM
RESIDENTIAL.
SO COULD I ASK THE COMMISSION
TO DELIBERATE FOR A MOMENT ON
THE IMPLICATIONS OF MOVING
FORWARD WITH THE PROPOSED
CHANGE OR RESTORE BRING A
BUFFER BETWEEN SINGLE FAMILY
AND MULTIFAMILY IN LIGHT OF OUR
DENSITY GOALS AND OTHER THINGS
WHICH I AM SURE I'LL TRY TO BE
QUICK BECAUSE I DON'T LIKE THAT
IDEA FOR REASONS THAT YOU'RE
PROBABLY GOING ARTICULATE
BETTER THAN ME BUT I DON'T LIKE
THE IDEA OF REQUIRING A BUFFER
BETWEEN SINGLE FAMILY AND
MULTIFAMILY.
I'M HOPING THAT SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING WE CAN SORT OUT THAT
CURRENT PLAN B I JUST I FEEL
LIKE THAT'S A REALLY EXTREME
EXAMPLE AND THAT'S THAT'S EX
THAT THEY'RE HAVING THESE
ISSUES BUT I FEEL LIKE IT
CAUSES A LOT OF POTENTIAL
EQUITY ISSUES AND EXCLUSIONARY
ISSUES SAYING LIKE WE DON'T
WANT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES TO BE
TOO CLOSE TO MULTIFAMILY.
I JUST FEEL LIKE IT SENDS THE
OPPOSITE MESSAGE FROM WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO JUST AS A
CITY MAKE NO YOU ARE CORRECT.
I WAS GOING TO SAY THE SAME
THING ESPECIALLY SINCE OUR GOAL
IS TO AND COUNCIL'S IS TO
ENABLE THE MISSING MIDDLE AND
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
IF I UNDERSTAND THIS CORRECTLY
,IF WE PUT A CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFER BETWEEN OUR THREE
AND OUR FOUR BUT WE PERMIT
THOSE IN ALL THE OUR DISTRICTS
NOW WE'VE PUT IN THIS 15 FOOT
ON BOTH SIDES IN ORDER TO
PROTECT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
YEAH, I WOULD NOT BE IN FAVOR
OF THAT.
I MIGHT JUST ALSO ADDED TO THE
LOT SIZE WHILE THERE MIGHT BE
CONTIGUOUS FLATS ASSEMBLED FOR
LARGER DEVELOPMENTS, A LOT
OF THESE CONDITIONS ARE SMALLER
LOTS AND WE'RE TAKING UP A LOT
OF BILLABLE FOOTPRINT WHEN
APPLYING THIS.
SO EVEN IN THOSE MULTIFAMILY
REQUIRING IT IN A LARGE PARCEL
MAY BE NEGLIGIBLE.
BUT WHEN WE LOOK AT OUR CITY AS
A WHOLE REQUIRING A 15 FOOT
BUFFER ON OUR SMALLER PARCELS,
MANY OF OUR MULTIFAMILY PARCELS
ALREADY NON CONFORMING TO OUR
CURRENT SIZE STANDARDS, IT
BECOMES VERY DIFFICULT TO
CREATE A FEASIBLE FOOTPRINT
WITHIN SO FURTHER RESTRICTS OUR
ABILITY TO CREATE MULTIFAMILY
DEVELOPMENT AND INSTEAD WE SEE
OUR MULTIFAMILY TURN INTO
SINGLE FAMILY.
BUT AS I WOULD UNDERSTAND IT IF
WE LOOKED AT IT JUST TO KIND
OF MAYBE FINISH THIS THOUGHT A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME CAN BE BUILT
ON A MULTIFAMILY PARCEL AND IF
WE MADE SURE THE CLUB OFFERED A
MULTIFAMILY TO A SINGLE FAMILY
THAT SINGLE FAMILY ON A
MULTIFAMILY PARCEL WOULD STILL
NEED TO BUILD A CLUB.
CORRECT.
SO BECAUSE IT'S NOT BY USE,
IT'S STILL JUST BY ZONING.
SO EVEN A SINGLE SO WE COULD
END UP WITH JUST A SINGLE
FAMILY BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO
GET A MCMANSION BECAUSE IT'S
ABOUT SQUARE FOOTAGE MORE THAN
A UNIT SOMETIMES AND WHO CAN
AFFORD TO CREATE THAT LANDSCAPE
BUFFER AND SECURE ENOUGH UNITS
ON THE.
SO I WOULD NOT SUPPORT ALSO WE
STILL HAVE SETBACKS SO WE'RE
NOT GOING LOT A LOT WITH SOME
OF THESE BUILDINGS.
>> ANYONE OTHER COMPANIES HAVE
ONE MORE SORRY WE'RE HERE JUST
PUBLIC PARK VERSUS ZONE L I
BELIEVE IN THE FINAL EDITS.
WE'RE JUST DOWN TO PUBLIC PARK
AND ZONE P EL PASOS NO LONGER
PART OF ANY OF THE LANGUAGE
WITHIN EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE
SEEN CAN SPEAK TO WHY WE'RE
LEANING TOWARDS PUBLIC PARKS AS
THE LANGUAGE INSTEAD OF PAUL.
YES I CAN RIGHT NOW ONLY ONE
OF THE APPLICABILITY STANDARDS
THE FIFTH ONE WHERE IT SAYS
PORTION OF A PARCEL IS OWNED BY
A BUDDING RESIDENTIAL OR THE
PEOPLE AGAIN I THINK THIS IS
ACTUALLY AND THEN THE OTHER
FOUR LET'S JUST TALK ABOUT
PUBLIC PARK.
I THINK PAUL IS TOO BROAD, TOO
ENCOMPASSING.
WE USE THE DISTRICT FOR ANY
PUBLICLY OWNED LAND AND 99
PERCENT OF IT WOULD BE OWNED BY
THE CITY RAN ARBOR, THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN OR THE
GENERAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT WE ARE
INTENDING CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG PLEASE BUT I DON'T THINK
WE'RE INTENDING TO REQUIRE A
BUFFER ACTUALLY TO BUFFER
ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS OR TO THE
LAND OWNED BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN I THINK OR EVEN
MAYBE ANOTHER CITY BANABA
FACILITY I THE OTHER FOR
APPLICABILITY REQUIREMENTS
SPECIFICALLY SAY PUBLIC PARK
AND I WENT WITH THE I'M
PROPOSING TO BE CONSISTENT WITH
THOSE OBVIOUSLY COULD BE
AMENDED BUT THAT IS MY
RATIONALE BEHIND I FELT THAT
THE DISTRICT WAS ACTUALLY A
LITTLE BIT TOO TOO BROAD.
YOU COULD HAVE A LOT OF USES
WITHIN A LOT OF DISTINCT AND
DIFFERENT USES WITHIN THAT
ZONING CATEGORY.
IS THERE ANY IS THERE ANY LIKE
HARDSHIP TO BE ABLE TO FIGURE
OUT IF IT'S A PUBLIC PARK AND
MAYBE MORE SPECIFICALLY I THINK
ABOUT LIKE PDS THAT OFTEN LIKE
DONATE PORTIONS OF LAND FOR
THOSE REASONS AND I'D LIKE TO
BECOME PUBLIC PARK LIKE WHAT IS
A PUBLIC PARK VERSUS THE GREEN
WAY OR SOMETHING ELSE TO THOSE
ALL FALL UNDER PUBLIC PARK.
DO WE HAVE AN OFFICIAL
DEFINITION OF IT?
THE UNOFFICIAL OFFICIAL
DEFINITION IS IF IT SHOWS UP IN
THE PROS THE PARKS RESTORATION
OPEN SPACE PLAN THERE IS A
OFFICIAL LIST OF CITY PARKS
PARKS AND NATURAL AREAS ARE
INCLUDED AND BUT THAT IS OUR
DEFINITION
OF A OF A PARK
.
SO STAFF HAS A DOCUMENT.
YES, OK, GOT PETITIONERS THAT'S
ALL I WANT.
GET READY FOR A VOTE.
I'M SORRY.
YES COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COUNCILMAN REDUS.
YES, I CERTAINLY YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
SURE WISH YES.
THAT MOTION IS THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO ITEM NUMBER EIGHT
C PETITION TWO ONE NINE FIVE E
ELSWORTH LOCKWOOD PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT D TEXT AMENDMENT
PROPOSAL TO ADJUST THE EAST
SIDE SET BACK BY FOUR FROM ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY FOUR FEET TO
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY FEET AND
THE SOUTH SIDE STEP BACK FROM
FOUR FEET TO SIXTY FROM FOUR
FEET FROM SIXTY EIGHT FEET TO
SIXTY FOUR FEET NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED.
WE WILL START WITH A PETITIONER
PRESENTATION OF UP TO TEN
MINUTES SORRY THE PETITIONER IS
ONLINE WITH A LOT THE LAST FOUR
NUMBERS OF THEIR SIZE ZERO NOW
SAYS MY I WAS JUST A PHONE
NUMBER BEFORE I'VE BEEN
PROMOTED TO ANALYST
I COULD
HIRE ARE YOU THERE?
HE WAS A
I JUST HAD THEM.
REGINA'S PANELIST
SO YOU CAN
MEET YOURSELF AND ADJUST THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
SORRY FOR THE DELAY
COMMISSIONERS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME THIS
EVENING.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR REQUEST OR
PETITION HERE TODAY IS TO
ESSENTIALLY CLEAN UP A CONFLICT
BETWEEN THE APPROVED SITE PLAN
FOR THE PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT ON ELSWORTH WITH
THE TEXT OF THE PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT AS APPROVED
PREVIOUSLY.
ESSENTIALLY THE SETBACK
MEASUREMENT WAS DONE FROM THE
MIDPOINT OF THE BUILDING ON THE
FRONT END AND SIDEWAYS AND UPON
REVISION SURVEYOR PROGRESS
CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS SURVEY WE
REALIZE THAT THE NEAREST POINTS
OF THE BUILDING WERE ABOUT
BETWEEN A FOOT AND A HALF AND
TWO AND A HALF FEET DEPENDING
ON THE CORNER CLOSER TO THE
BACK AS WRITTEN AND THAT THAT
REALLY THE APPROVED SITE PLAN
WAS WAS MEASURED AND TRANSLATED
TO TEXT BUT TO TWO AND A HALF
FEET OFF.
AND SO WE'RE LOOKING TO CLEAN
UP THAT THAT CONFLICT BETWEEN
THE SITE PLAN AND THE TEXT
OF THE BEAUTY AND THAT IS WHAT
WE'RE REPRESENTING TODAY
.
THANK YOU.
AND I WILL MOVE ON TO STEP
PRESENTATION.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
SO ON YOUR SCREEN I'LL GO
THROUGH YOU YOU SEE SOME
IMAGES.
I APOLOGIZE.
OBVIOUSLY THE FIRST ONE IS
PRETTY WELL ZOOMED BUT THAT
SHOWS THE ALTA SURVEY.
HOW THIS WAS KIND OF DISCOVERED
IS THAT THE PETITIONER WAS
DOING A AN ULTRA SURVEY DURING
CONSTRUCTION SO THEN OBVIOUSLY
THAT SURVEY REVEALED THAT THAT
FOUNDATION IS A MR. LOCKWOOD
SAID ABOUT A FOOT AND A HALF OR
SO OVER THE TWO CORNERS WOULD
THERE BE THE SOUTHEAST CORNER
AND JUST THE SOUTH EDGE OF IT
ALONG THE FRONT AREA THERE?
SO YOU CAN SEE HERE ANOTHER
ZOOMED IMAGE.
OBVIOUSLY THE YELLOW AREAS ARE
THE ONES THAT ARE KIND OF JUST
OVER THAT THAT SET BACK ON THIS
OBVIOUSLY MUCH FARTHER ZOOMED
OUT SHOWS HOW IT WOULD COMPLY
WITH THE PROPOSED SETBACKS IS
HOW WE'RE MODIFYING IF YOU CAN
SEE THE YELLOW AREA HERE, THOSE
SET BACKS MOVE BACK.
IT'S ABOUT FOUR FEET THERE SO
YOU CAN SEE IT'S WELL WITHIN
THAT SET BACK THERE WITHIN THE
FRONT AND WITHIN THE SIDE AREA
HERE AND THIS IS DO WE WE TRY
TO WHEN WE'RE INITIALLY DOING
THE PLANNING THE PDS AS YOU ALL
KNOW, THEY HAVE THEIR OWN SET
SET BACKS TO FIND SPECIFICALLY
IN THERE.
WE TRY TO GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF WIGGLE ROOM WHEN WE'RE
BUILDING THOSE BECAUSE THINGS
LIKE THIS COULD HAPPEN.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THIS IS AGAIN
SOMETHING OBVIOUSLY STAFF CAN'T
CHANGE BECAUSE IT'S IN THE
ZONING OF THE OF THE PROJECT.
THIS WILL ULTIMATELY HAVE TO GO
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL.
SO WE DID WHILE IT'S NOT WE'VE
GIVEN FOUR FEET THERE, IT'S
REALLY ONLY ABOUT TWO FEET OVER
IT.
IT'S UNLIKELY TO CHANGE AGAIN
BECAUSE THE FOUNDATION IS SET
IF YOU SEE THE I MEAN IF YOU'VE
BEEN OUT LATELY, YOU SEE THE
AERIAL PHOTO, IT'S NOT GOING
ANYWHERE NOW.
SO BUT WE STILL JUST JUST IN
CASE WE ENABLE THAT LITTLE BIT.
SO THAT'S REALLY BASICALLY WHAT
IT IS.
THERE'S NO OTHER CHANGE FOR THE
LAND USE, NO CHANGE THE PARKING
AND THE OTHER THING WITHIN THE
THE PROJECT AS FAR AS THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY APPROVED BACK IN I
BELIEVE IT WAS TWENTY TWENTY
YES.
SO THAT'S BASICALLY IT.
I'M HERE FOR ANY QUESTIONS AND
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
.
THANK YOU.
NOW OPEN UP A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT PROPOSED
NEXT AMENDMENT AT TWO ONE NINE
FIVE E ELSWORTH WE'LL FIRST
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESSED ARE NINE LISTENING BY
PHONE AND USE THE RAISE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU READ THROUGH THE
WEB LINK PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING NINETY NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX THREE.
STAFF SCHOLARS HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND OVER THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
WE'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS WHEN I HEAR
YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OR PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
YES.
MY NAME IS RICHARD DEHNART AND
I LIVE AT TWENTY TWO FIFTY EAST
ELSWORTH ROAD WHICH IS DIRECTLY
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THIS
BUILDING.
I'VE LIVED AT MY HOME FOR AS
FAR BACK AS 1959 SO I KIND
OF SEEING HOW ALL OF THIS IS
DEVELOPED SEVERAL YEARS AGO
WHEN LOCKWOOD WAS BEING
PROPOSED THE RESIDENTS
SURROUNDING THE PROJECT WERE
ASKED FOR INPUT.
AFTER LOOKING AT THE
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN I
SUGGESTED TO MOVE THE BUILDING
BACK ABOUT FIFTY FEET AND KEEP
AS MANY OF THE TREES AS
POSSIBLE.
OBVIOUSLY NONE OF THAT HAPPENED
.
IN ESSENCE THE PROPERTY WAS
ERASED OF EVERYTHING AND IT
TURNED INTO A HILLY LANDSCAPE
INTO A FLAT RECTANGLE I GUESS I
HAVE SEVERAL QUESTIONS.
ONE IS WHO IS ACCOUNTABLE FOR
THE MISTAKE AND THE LOCATION?
SECOND, WHY DIDN'T THE CITY
INSPECTION PROCESS CATCH THE
MISTAKE BEFORE IT WAS TOO LATE
TO FIX IT?
AND I GUESS WHAT IS THE POINT
IN HAVING SET BACK RULES IF
THEY AREN'T GOING TO BE
FOLLOWED AND WHAT IS THE
COMPENSATION FOR THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY OWNERS BECAUSE A
VARIANCE FROM THE INITIAL
PROPOSAL WAS NOT PUT OUT THERE
AND THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN AND IT
APPEARS THAT THIS IS GOING TO
HAPPEN ANYWAY BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK THEY'RE GOING TO MOVE THE
BUILDING.
BUT AS AN ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNER I'LL BE BASICALLY LIVING
WITH THIS MISTAKE FOR AS LONG
AS I LIVE IN MY HOME AND IF
YOU'VE BEEN OUT TO THAT SITE,
THAT BUILDING IS RIGHT UP IN
YOUR FACE.
IT'S THREE STORIES HIGH AND
IT'S IT'S HUGE.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK SO ANYONE ELSE THAT
WISHES TO SPEAK THERE'S ONE
COLLAR VIRTUALLY ALL WE ARE I
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AGAIN, COMMISSIONER.
HOW THEY CAN ARBER.
YES.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE AN OPINION
ON THE I JUST MEAN I THINK YOU
AS MR. GEPHARDT SAID YOU'RE
PRETTY MUCH HAVE TO GRANTED I
AGREE WITH THEM THAT IT'S
UNFORTUNATE THAT THERE SHOULD
BE SOME ACCOUNTABILITY BUT I
WANT SINCE WE HAVE MR. LOQUITUR
HERE IF I WERE SITTING IN YOUR
CHAIR I WOULD HAVE A QUESTION
UNRELATED AND BLACKWOOD
COMMITTED TO AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING WITH THE EXCEPTION THE
COMMERCIAL KITCHEN AND SMALL
CORRECTION.
THE BUILDING WAS APPROVED IN
FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY ONE AND
A FEW DAYS BEFORE CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED IT.
STEVE GABBERS, VICE PRESIDENT
OF DEVELOPMENT CONFIRMED THAT
IN A LETTER TO MR. KAWALSKY
MARKOWITZ COMMITTED TO DOING
ALL ELECTRIC HEAT SO THIS
WASN'T WRITTEN INTO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIO AND
I'M JUST CURIOUS HOW IS THAT
GOING AND WHAT KIND OF SYSTEM
IS BEING PUT IN BECAUSE THE
BUILDING IS PRETTY FAR ALONG SO
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ELSHAUG THE
RF INDIVIDUAL UNIT HEAT PUMPS,
GEOTHERMAL PERHAPS MAYBE ONE
OF YOU SHARES MY CURIOSITY AND
WE'LL TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MR.
ROCKWOOD PRESENT TIME LINE TO
ASK THE QUESTION THAT'S ON I
HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THAT.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
INDULGENCE.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE CAN I MAKE A
COMMENT TO THE
I MEAN YOU DO DO
IT I DON'T KNOW IF YOU STILL
HAVE A MINUTE LEFT IN YOUR
TIME.
FROM WHAT I SAW IS THAT IT'S I
THINK MAYBE UP TO THE
DISCRETION OF THE CHAIR.
BUT YOU WHEN YOU STEP AWAY FROM
THE PODIUM, RELINQUISH YOUR
TIME YOUR PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
IN MY OPINION WOULD BE OVER.
BUT IT'S COULD BE AT YOUR
DISCRETION.
MADAM CHAIR, I JUST SIMPLY WANT
TO STATE AND I'LL LET YOU KNOW
AND THAT IS THAT I THE THE
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE GOES RIGHT
IN FRONT OF MY HOUSE JUST
INSIDE IT RIGHT AWAY EASEMENT
AND I DO KNOW THAT THEY DID AN
EXCAVATION ACROSS THE ROAD AND
HOOK THAT BUILDING INTO THE
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE IN THE ROOM WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK?
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION
REMOTELY?
THERE'S ONE HAND RAISED ADAM
MISCAVIGE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
HI, THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE.
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE
.
THESE SETBACKS ARE SUCH THAT A
FEW FEET BARELY REGISTERS AS A
ROUNDING ERROR OR IN THE
PRESENCE OF OUR TIMES NOTHING
BURGER I FIND THE IDEA THAT
THIS WOULD BE OBJECTIONABLE TO
BE RISIBLE.
>> THANK YOU.
THERE ANOTHER HANDS RAISED THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU.
CLOSING PUBLIC COMMENT I WILL
READ THE MOTION AND OUR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE LOCKWOOD
OF ANIBA DEVELOPMENT OF NINE
ONE OR TWO ONE NINE FIVE
ELLSWORTH PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT PUDI ZONING TEXT
AMENDMENT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
NERDISH
SO I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
THE QUESTIONS WHO SO THE
MISTAKE OCCURRED BECAUSE THE
SITE PLAN WAS IMPROPER WE
TRANSLATED INTO THE TEXT OF THE
PD IS THAT THAT'S WHAT I HEARD
SAID IS THAT CORRECT?
WELL I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY.
WE HAVE A SET OF SITE PLANS
THAT WE REVIEW NATIONALLY THAT
HAVE A NUMBER.
RIGHT.
AND THEN THAT THAT NUMBER LIKE
I THAT WE GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF WIGGLE ROOM VERSUS WHAT THEY
PROPOSE.
WE'RE NOT INTIMATELY INVOLVED
WITH THE SURVEYING PROCESS AND
ALL THAT OF COURSE OF LAYING IT
OUT.
SO WE BUILD OUR OUR NUMBER
OF SET BACK THAT WE GET IN THE
REGULATIONS BASED ON THE SITE
THAT THEY PRESENT AT THAT TIME.
SO I AM NOT TO SURVEY I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW HOW WHO LIKE WE
WOULDN'T HAVE GONE OUT THERE
AND SURVEYED IT OURSELVES.
WE KNOW THE CITY DOES NOT DO
THAT.
SO I THINK DURING THEIR PROCESS
OF FINANCING AND WHATNOT THEY
NEED TO UPDATE THEIR ULTRA
SURVEY.
SO THAT'S HOW IT WAS
DISCOVERED.
SO I I DON'T KNOW IF THE
INITIAL SURVEY WAS JUST OFF OR
IF I MEAN LIKE I SAID, THE
SETBACKS THAT ARE IN THE PBT
REGULATIONS ARE NOT EXACTLY
BASED ON A NUMBER WE GAVE A
RANGE AND IT JUST HAPPENED TO
FALL JUST BUT NOT ENOUGH OF A
RANGE LIKE ONLY A FOOT AND IT
JUST FELL OUTSIDE OF THAT
RANGE.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHETHER THE
INITIAL SURVEY WAS OFF THE SET
BACKS AGAIN, IT'S NOT LIKE WE
SAID AN EXACT NUMBER IN THERE.
SO TRANSLATING THE SURVEY TO
THE SETBACKS DOESN'T IT'S NOT
REALLY A DIRECT CORRELATION
INITIALLY.
OK, SO YOU'RE SAYING THAT THE
STATEMENT THAT I THINK I HEARD
WHICH WAS THAT THE APPROVED
SITE PLAN WAS TRANSLATED INTO
THE TEXT OF THE PD INCORRECTLY
IS NOT A CORRECT DESCRIPTION
OF WHAT HAPPENED BECAUSE
THERE'S A THE APPROVED SITE
PLAN FITS WITHIN THE APPROVED
PUDI REGULATIONS.
SO YES, THAT SO RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT WAS
MEANT BY THAT.
I MEAN I THINK THAT WAS YEAH.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A LITTLE TOO
DID I MISS HERE OR DID YOU ASK
THEM.
SO WE DO STILL HAVE MR.
LOCKWOOD ON THE LINE AND I
THINK WHAT PLANNER KOWALSKI WAS
SAYING DURING HIS INITIAL
PRESENTATION IS THAT THERE ARE
ALLOWANCES MADE FOR CERTAIN
TYPES OF TECHNICAL
DISCREPANCIES THAT MAY HAPPEN
THROUGHOUT LATER SERVING BUT
THAT THAT'S NEVER THE LAST.
DID MOVE YET OUTSIDE OF THAT
WIGGLE ROOM THAT WAS INITIALLY
ALLOWED FOR BUT PERHAPS THE
PETITIONER CAN ASSIST IN THIS
QUESTION.
MR. LOCKWOOD WOULD YOU MIND?
SURE, SURE.
I THINK I THINK THAT'S AN
ACCURATE DESCRIPTION.
I THINK THAT MY MY
UNDERSTANDING IN THIS MAY BE
MORE OF A QUESTION FOR OUR
CIVIL ENGINEERING TEAM IS THAT
THE MEASUREMENTS PROVIDED ON
THE THE SITE PLAN THAT THAT WAS
APPROVED BASED ON THE INITIAL
SURVEY WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT TO
MENTION FROM THE NEAREST POINT
OF THE BUILDING IN THE BUILDING
APPEARS TO BE SQUARE TO TO
ELSWORTH ROAD AND A VISUAL
REVIEW BUT IT'S ACTUALLY OFFSET
BY WELL ACROSS THE SPAN OF THE
BUILDING BY ABOUT A FOOT AND A
HALF.
AND THAT'S THAT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING OF WHERE THE
DISCREPANCY CAME IN INTO PLAY.
AND THEN WE WENT THROUGH THE
PROCESS OF HAVING AN INTERIM
SURVEY DONE BY OUR AS IN
ACCORDANCE WITH OUR OUR LENDER
WHICH IS THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
.
WE DISCOVERED THAT THAT ISSUE
THAT WE WERE THAT THE THE THE
BUILDING AS I UNDERSTAND IT AND
THEY APPROVED THAT PLAN WAS
SLIGHTLY OUTSIDE OF THE
PRESCRIBED IN THE PUDI AT THAT
POINT WE INITIATED THE PROCESS
OF MAKING SURE THAT EVERYTHING
MATCH UP OK.
SO I THINK THE QUESTION THAT
THE THAT CONCERNED THE RESIDENT
IS CONCERNS THEN THE
MEASUREMENTS WHO DID THE
MEASUREMENTS THAT WERE
OF YOUR
ANOTHER MR. LOCKWOOD I'M SORRY
I SHOULD BE MORE CLEAR YOU'RE
SAYING THAT THE MEASUREMENTS
WERE DONE INCORRECTLY, THAT
THEY WERE WHATEVER YOUR
REFERENCE POINT WAS, IT
ACTUALLY SET THE BUILDING
SLIGHTLY OFF FROM WHERE IT WAS
MEANT TO BE.
WHO WOULD HAVE BEEN RESPONSIBLE
FOR THOSE MEASUREMENTS I THINK
IS THE QUESTION THAT THE
RESIDENT WOULD LIKE TO KNOW.
SURE WOULD BE THE SURVEYOR AND
CIVIL ENGINEER WHO LAID OUT THE
SEQUENCE.
I THINK THE MEASUREMENTS FROM
THE MIDDLE OF THE BUILDING AND
NOT THE THE NEAREST CORNER IS
MY UNDERSTANDING.
YES.
IN THE PLAN LIKE I MEAN I CAN
VERIFY WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
ORIGINAL APPROVED PLAN IT
SCALES CORRECTLY TO THAT THOSE
DIMENSIONS BASED ON THAT SURVEY
THAT WAS PROVIDED AT THAT TIME.
SO AGAIN, I THINK THERE IS IT
WAS POSSIBLY A AN AREA WHERE
THEY CENTER THAT IS WHERE KIND
OF AND I KNOW MR. LOCKE WHEN I
WERE TRYING TO TALK TO SURVEY
SURVEY TALK BUT AGAIN THAT'S
WHERE THAT THAT'S WHERE THAT
ERROR CAME IN AND THEN WHEN
THEY RESURVEYED IT, I BELIEVE
THEY PROBABLY USE A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT CENTERING POINT.
I MEAN WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
A LOT ON A BIG SITE HERE BUT I
DID GO BACK TO SCALE THE PLAN
AND SAY WELL OK, WELL THIS THE
SITE PLAN IT WAS THAT REALLY
BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN SCALE
OF OUR SITE PLANS.
WAS THAT EXACTLY LIKE WAS THE
SITE TIME NO OFF JUST IN ERROR
ON THE THING BUT IT SCALES
CORRECTLY ON THAT BASED ON THE
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED AND
THAT SITE PLAN WAS BUILT UPON
THAT SURVEY AND THEN WE MADE
THE SETBACKS WITH A LITTLE BIT
OF WIGGLE ROOM UPON THAT SITE
AND THAT WAS BASED ON THE
SURVEY THAT SUBMITTED.
SO THAT'S KIND OF A CONVOLUTED
WAY.
SO I GUESS WE DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY WHERE ULTIMATELY I
WOULD BELIEVE IT WOULD BE THE
CIVIL ENGINEER, THE SURVEYOR
THAT WOULD HAVE TO DEFINE
EXACTLY WHERE THAT ERROR
OCCURRED AND WHAT THEY WERE
BASING THEIR MEASUREMENTS UPON.
YEAH, AND I DON'T THINK WE
ACTUALLY NEED TO DO A WHOLE
FORENSIC ANALYSIS BUT I THERE
THERE WAS I WANTED TO JUST MAKE
SURE THAT THERE WASN'T AN
IMPLICATION THAT THE CITY WAS
AT FAULT AND IN THE END WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT A FOOT OR TWO SO
IT DOESN'T SEEM ALL THAT
DISTRESSING THEN I WOULD LIKE
TO AGAIN GIVE VOICE TO ANOTHER
RESIDENTS QUESTION WHICH IS SO
I WONDER, MR. LOCKWOOD, IF YOU
COULD TELL US HOW YOU ARE
ACTUALLY GOING TO BE HEATING
THE BUILDING.
WERE YOU UNABLE TO FULFILL YOUR
INTENTION TO MAKE IT ALL
ELECTRIC HEATING OR WERE YOU
SOAKED TO ADDRESS THAT RIGHT
NOW THAT THE BUILDING IS
PRIMARILY HEATED VIA A HIGH
EFFICIENCY NATURAL GAS BOILER
SYSTEM WHICH IS I THINK THAT
WAS WHAT WAS DISCUSSED AT THE
TIME OF APPROVAL IS THAT WE
WOULD SUBMIT A WAIVER TO THE
DESIGN STANDARDS OF MICHIGAN
STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY WHICH IN THEIR DESIGN
STANDARDS AT THE TIME AT LEAST
MANDATED THAT GAS IN WATER BE
SUPPLIED THE NATURAL GAS HEAT
AND THAT THAT WAIVER REQUEST
WAS SUBMITTED AND WAS NOT
APPROVED
.
YOU COULD ANYBODY ELSE.
I HAVE PROCEDURAL QUESTIONS AS
I UNDERSTAND PUDI IF IT'S NOT
WRITTEN IN THE PUDI IT FALLS
BACK TO OUR BASE UDC TEXT
CORRECT?
WELL FOR WHAT WHAT WHAT SO
BECAUSE WE WERE PLANNED
PROJECTS AND CREATED LANGUAGE
ABOUT AVERAGING SETBACK AND
SETBACK JUST AS PART OF OUR
BASE UDC AND OUR BASE UDC ALSO
HAS MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM SET
BACKS.
I'M CURIOUS WHY THAT PART
OF OUR UDC THAT ALLOWS THAT
SETBACK AVERAGING DIDN'T APPLY
TO THIS PROJECT?
WELL I THINK YOU'D PROBABLY
SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE WE WROTE I
LIKE IF IT'S EXCLUDED YOU'RE
SAYING IT WOULD IF WE DON'T
WRITE IT IN THERE AND IT'S
AUTOMATIC BUT WE ADDRESS THE
SET SETBACK SPECIFICALLY HERE.
I THINK IT'D BE DIFFERENT IF WE
DIDN'T ADDRESS THE SETBACKS
THEN THAT MAYBE THAT WOULD KICK
IN THAT QUALIFICATION.
BUT WE WE DO ADDRESS THE
SETBACKS HERE AND WE DON'T
ALLOW FOR AVERAGING
SPECIFICALLY IN THESE PADS.
SO I THINK IF IT WAS IF WE
WEREN'T NOTING A SETBACK
SPECIFICALLY HERE'S THE RANGE
THEN IT WOULD FALL BACK TO THAT
THAT UNDERLYING ZONING
DISTRICT, THE AVERAGE SORT
OF THING SPECIFIC WAS LIKE OK,
SO IN A PUDI OUTLINE A SET BACK
IT'S A FIRM NO IT DOESN'T ADOPT
SAME FLEXIBILITY AS THE REST
OF OUR ADC WE LOOK YES THAT'S
CORRECT BECAUSE AGAIN I LOOK
NOT TO NOT TO AVOID COMING
ABOARD.
IT WAS A RELATIVELY MINOR ISSUE
AND RATHER THAN DRIVING YOU
KNOW, THE THIS PROJECT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT
THROUGH THESE RINGS AGAIN WE
BUT THERE'S SIMPLY NO WAY WE
EXHAUSTED THAT IT'S A ZONING
IT'S SET IN THERE.
IT HAS TO BE BY COUNCIL AND
THERE'S NO OTHER WAY TO VARY.
GIVE A LIKE IF WE WOULD HAVE
WRITTEN THAT IN THERE INITIALLY
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN A GOOD
IDEA.
NOW WE'VE LEARNED FROM THIS AS
WELL AS GIVING MAYBE A LITTLE
BIT OF EXTRA FLEXIBILITY WITHIN
OUR ZONING.
LIKE I SAID, I THOUGHT I BUILT
IN A LITTLE BIT BUT YOU KNOW,
THERE MAY BE SOME WAYS
OF LOOKING AT THAT KIND
OF THING IN THE FUTURE TO GIVE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR
STAFF WELL A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
WE JUDGE JUDGMENT MAYBE WHEN
THINGS LIKE THAT FALL.
THE PLATE THAT GOES TO MY
SECOND QUESTION IS IF THIS WAS
A PILOT PROJECT LET'S JUST SAY
IT WAS APPROVED AND MET ALL THE
STANDARDS WOULD THIS AND HAD
OTHER THAN THE VARIANCE WOULD
THIS HAVE BEEN AN
ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENT IF
THIS WAS A PILOT PROJECT
INSTEAD OF COMING BACK THROUGH?
NO, I THINK BECAUSE WE'VE GOT
THAT SCALE NOW I'D HAVE TO PULL
UP THE CODE .
IT'S SHIFTING IT WOULD BE
ADJUSTING A SETBACK SLIGHTLY.
IT WOULD AT LEAST I THINK IT
WOULD JUST BE ADMINISTRATIVE.
I'LL HAVE TO PULL UP THE CODE .
IT WOULDN'T BE EPIC FILM
FESTIVAL WITHIN THE APPROVED
LIKE THE REQUIRED SET BACKS
THEN IT WOULD IT WOULDN'T HAVE
TO GO ALL THE WAY BACK TO
COUNCIL.
I KNOW THAT.
SO IT'S BUT I'D HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE CODE REALLY QUICKLY TO SEE
WHETHER IT BE ADMINISTRATIVE OR
PLANNING COMMISSION BUT TO
REVIEW THE SITE PLAN A PLANNING
COMMISSION.
EXACTLY BECAUSE IT WOULD BE A
MINOR CHANGE AND WE DID SOME
THINGS WITH OUR LAST REVISIONS
TO ALLOW BUILDINGS TO SHIFT
SLIGHTLY FOR EXACTLY THE
REASONABLE BI RIGHT PROJECT IF
IT COMES IN A FOOT OR A HALF
OVER WE DON'T HAVE TO GO
THROUGH ALL THE IF THERE'S SO
WE DID BUILD THAT IN BUT AGAIN
I DON'T MR. LANE, IT'S LOOKING
IT UP.
I MEAN I CAN YEAH.
I'M CURIOUS.
I'M SURE I GUESS YOU KNOW AS
YOU'RE DIGGING I'LL I'LL
EXPLAIN LIKE THE THE BURDEN
OF THE PD THE BURDEN OR BENEFIT
OF THE PD AND IF THOSE ACTUALLY
BALANCE OUT OR NOT RELATIVE TO
WHAT WE'RE ASKING FOR AND A
PUBLIC BENEFIT I KNOW WE HAVE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THIS.
WE'RE NOT GETTING THE
ELECTRIFICATION UNFORTUNATELY
BUT GOING THROUGH THIS ENTIRE
PROCESS AGAIN LIKE PUDI DOES
NOT HAVE A CLEAR SECOND STEP
AND RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A I'M SO
EXCITED FOR I CAN'T PLAN
BECAUSE WHAT WE SEE IS PUSHING
PETITIONERS INTO PDS BECAUSE
THE DISCOMFORT OF ZONING AND
THEN NOT ONLY IS THERE THE
HURDLE OF THE PD, THERE'S THE
CONTINUED HURDLE OF A PD.
SO THAT'S RIGHT.
I'M LIKE WHAT WOULD THIS LOOK
LIKE IF WE WERE ACTUALLY COULD
REZONE THINGS OR YOU KNOW, THIS
ONE OR ANY OTHER PROGRESSIVE
REZONING WILL HELP MORE BERETTI
PROJECT HIT OUR GOALS SO HER
ABDELNOUR TO YOUR QUESTION YOU
HAVE THE THIS WOULD FALL UNDER
REVISION.
IT WOULD LIKELY FALL INTO THE
VISION OF MOVING A BUILDING
PLACEMENT EITHER MORE OR LESS
THAN 10 FEET IN THIS CASE I
THINK IT WOULD BE LESS THAN TEN
FEET IF I'M UNDERSTANDING THAT
SO THAT WOULD BE A SITE PLAN
FOR PLANNING MANAGER APPROVAL.
IT WOULD THAT WOULD NOT REQUIRE
BUT BUT BECAUSE AS YOU SAID,
THE PD WHEN THE PD IS USED TO
SPECIFY WE RECENTLY HAD ANOTHER
EXAMPLE OF THIS WITH PEOPLE ON
BROADWAY WHERE YES, THE THE
MORE THAT A PD CAN STRAIN THAT
PROJECT AT THE OUTSET, THE LESS
FLEXIBILITY IT'S GOING TO HAVE
GOING FORWARD.
SO THIS IS IF IT WAS JUST A
KIND OF PLAY OUT THE WHOLE
SCENARIO IF THIS WAS MY RIGHT
IT WOULD BE PLANNING MANAGER
REVIEW VERSUS A PLANNING
COMMISSION FIRST OR EVEN SECOND
READING CITY COUNCIL THREE
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
YES, I'D LIKE TO PUT TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS BUT THREE MEETINGS OK
,I THINK THAT'S A I MEAN AS I
HAVE THE MIKE IT'S REALLY
DISAPPOINTING NOT TO SEE A
BUILDING THE SIZE ESPECIALLY ON
A CLEAR AND BLANK SLATE BEING
ABLE TO CAPTURE A LOT MORE
RENEWABLE RESOURCES TO MAKE
THIS ALL ELECTRIC.
IT IS POSSIBLE AND TECHNOLOGY
HAS TO MOVE FORWARD AND I WOULD
LOVE TO SEE THAT DENIAL
REASONING OF THE HOUSING NOT
ALLOWING DISCONNECTION GAS.
SO THAT'S ADDED TO OUR
CONVERSATION ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION.
MANY OTHER COMMENTS.
RIGHT.
MOVE TO A VOTE ON THE MOTION AS
PRESENTED.
COMMISSIONER SORRY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COUNCILMAN REDISH.
YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE.
YES, COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER WIFE.
YES.
THAT MOTION CARRIES THE THANK
YOU RIGHT.
I MOVE TO ITEM EIGHT D PETITION
THREE NINE FOUR FIVE TWO THREE
NINE FIVE SEVEN SOUTH STATE'S
PLAN AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS A
PROPOSAL TO REDUCE THE SIZE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING AT
THREE NINE FOUR NINE TO THREE
NINE FIVE SEVEN S STATE BY ONE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED EIGHTY
FOUR SQUARE FEET AND TO ADD A
DRIVE THRU LANE ALONG THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING WE WILL START
WITH PETITIONER PRESENTATION
OF UP TEN MINUTES ARCHITECTURE
REPRESENTING THE OWNERS.
WE'D LIKE TO ASK FOR A
POSTPONEMENT TONIGHT HAVE FOR
SEVERAL REASONS.
NUMBER ONE SEVERAL MEMBERS
OF OUR TEAM ARE AVAILABLE
TONIGHT SO WE DON'T HAVE OUR
CIVIL ENGINEERS OR OUR TRAFFIC
CONSULTANT WITH US.
NUMBER TWO BECAUSE OF AN ERROR
IN THE PROCESS THE POSTCARDS
THAT WERE MAILED OUT FOR THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT CONTAIN THE
IMAGE OF BEAKMAN ON BROADWAY
AND THE POSTCARD INSTEAD OF OUR
PROJECT.
AND NUMBER THREE, WE'D LIKE TO
MAKE A PRESENTATION BEFORE A
FULL BOARD.
SO IN LIGHT OF OUR REQUEST FOR
THE POSTPONEMENT, I CAN
CERTAINLY GO AHEAD WITH MY
PRESENTATION OR WE CAN CALL OFF
WHICHEVER YOU PREFER.
I SAY PROCEED CONVERSATION IF
YOU WANT ANY EARLY FEEDBACK SO
MATTERS YOU'RE GOING TO DRIVE
THOSE SLIDES.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS A GENERAL
AREA PLAN KIND OF SHOWING THE
OVERALL CONTEXT THE SITE YOU'LL
SEE PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
REFERENCE THERE IS THE COST GO
OFF TO THE LEFT.
THIS IS AN AREA ON THE FRINGE
OF THE CITY WHERE IT BORDERS
THE PETROL TOWNSHIP.
MY SENSE IS THAT THERE'S AN
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE TOWNSHIP
AND THE CITY THAT CITY WILL NO
LONGER BE GOBBLING UP THE
TOWNSHIP SO THESE BOUNDARIES
ARE LIKELY TO STAY THE WAY THEY
ARE FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE
.
YOU CAN SEE THE CIRCLE AROUND
THE EXISTING BUILDING WHICH HAS
BEEN BUILT IN MY CLIENT'S BEEN
UNABLE TO LEASE IT FOR ABOUT
FIVE YEARS NOW IT'S RIGHT
BEHIND THE JIMMY JOHN'S PEOPLE
WILL PROBABLY KNOW THAT JIMMY
JOHN'S BECAUSE YOU CAN SEE THAT
WHEN YOU DRIVE UP AND DOWN THE
STREET NEXT SLIDE
WHICH IS
STANDING AT SO THIS IS JUST THE
EXISTING SIDE BY IT SHOWS THE
WAY THE BUILDINGS ARE
CONSTRUCTED TO LAY DOWN ON THE
SITE WITH AN AREA THAT'S
HIGHLIGHTED WHETHER THE
PROPOSED CHANGE WOULD BE AN
EXCELLENT THIS IS A SLIDE THAT
SHOWS THE REMOVAL OF ABOUT
EIGHT FEET OF THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING AND BY REMOVING
THAT EIGHT FEET OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING THAT WOULD FACILITATE
PUTTING A LANE THROUGH THIS
NORTH SIDE OF THE BUILDING FROM
THE EAST SIDE OF THE PARKING
LOT TO THE MIDDLE OF THE
PARKING LOT.
NEXT SLIDE THERE'S A LARGE
AMOUNT OF THE NEW PROPOSED NEW
FOOTPRINT WAS SHOWING THE
STACKING FOR ABOUT A DOZEN CARS
OR VEHICLES AS THEY LOOK AT THE
WAY AROUND THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING, WHICH IS FAR
MORE THAN ANY TIME THAT I'VE
EVER BEEN THERE EVEN AT
LUNCHTIME AT JIMMY JOHN'S I
DON'T GET THAT MUCH STACKING AT
THE JIMMY JOHN'S BECAUSE IT'S A
MUCH SHALLOWER TURN.
I UNDERSTAND THAT MANY DAYS
OF THE JIMMY JOHN'S SAYS EVEN
HAVE INDOOR SEATING BECAUSE
THEY CAN'T FIND THE STAFF SO
THEY'RE RELEGATED TO MOST
OF THE TIME HAVING TO DRIVE
THROUGH SERVICE ONLY YOU'LL SEE
HERE THE SIDE PLAN WE'RE
PUTTING IN ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING STATIONS WHICH THERE
ARE CURRENTLY NONE ON THE SITE
BUT WE WOULD BE ADDING THOSE
BOTH THE EAST AND THE WEST END
OF THE MODIFIED BUILDING GET
SOME THE ELEVATIONS WITH EIGHT
FEET EXCISED OFF THE NORTH NOT
PROPOSING ANY CHANGES TO THIS
TO THE SOUTH NEXT SHOULD BE
SOME SOME VISUAL
REPRESENTATIONS OF THE SOUTH
SIDE AND THE TWO ENDS YOU CAN
SEE IN THOSE TWO ENDS THERE'S
THERE'S A CONSTRUCTION JOINT
AND ABOUT THE PLACE WHERE WE
WOULD BE REMOVING THAT NORTHERN
SIDE OF THE BUILDING THAT I
BELIEVE THE REST OF THEM ARE
JUST THE CIVIL ENGINEERING
SUBMISSION FOR THE PROJECT AND
SO HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
NOW MOVE TO THAT PRESENTATION.
MR. DENNIS.
MR MOORE SAID THE PETITION HERE
BEFORE YOU IT'S A SITE AS WELL
AS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YES, THEY ARE ALSO THEY ALSO DO
REQUIRE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WAS
RECENTLY PUT IT USED TO BE A
VARIANCE REQUEST BUT ONE
OF YOUR CHANGES WITHIN THE LAST
YEAR OR SO I MOVED IT TO A
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION.
THAT'S TRUE AND IT'S FULLY
SUPPORTED STAFF AND THEY HAVE
EXISTING TREES AND JUST OUT
OF THE RIGHT OF WAY AT THE
FRONT OF THE SITE IN FRONT
OF JIMMY JOHN'S.
BUT THIS IS ONE SITE SO WE'RE
LOOKING AT EVERYTHING BUT THOSE
TREES CAN'T BE PLACED IN THE
RIGHT OF WAY STREET TREES
BECAUSE OF THE DISTANCE, THE
WIDTH AND THE UTILITY LINE
RUNNING THROUGH THERE.
SO THERE IS A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION THAT WOULD ALSO BE
REQUESTED AT THIS SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS OBVIOUSLY FOR
APPROVAL OF THE DRIVE THROUGH
AND IT IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING I WOULD SAY CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL BUT SHOULD BE
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
AND OH SORRY WE HAVE THAT DONE
HERE.
AND SO REALLY AGAIN THE MAIN
CONCERNS WE LOOKED AT THAT THEY
DID SUBMIT AN UPDATED TRAFFIC
STUDY WITH THIS A TRAFFIC
IMPACT.
OBVIOUSLY THE NATURE OF THE
SITE WAS CHANGING THE USE IT
THAT THAT BUILDING WAS NOT
PROPERLY DESIGNED FOR A DRIVE
THROUGH SO THEY HAD TO DO A NEW
STUDY TO LOOK AT THAT.
OUR TRAFFIC ENGINEER DID
EXAMINE THAT A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS BACK AND FORTH
REALLY THE ONLY CONCERNS SHE
ENDED UP WITH WAS JUST
INCREASING THE THE VISIBILITY
OF DRAPING.
YOU CAN SEE ACTUALLY IN THE
RIGHT PICTURE HERE ON THE TOP
RIGHT PICTURE THEY DO HAVE THE
SITE WAS DONE WITH PORC PAPERS
WHICH SEEM TO BE WORKING VERY
WELL.
SO THAT'S A GOOD THING.
WE HAD SOME PROBLEMS WITH OTHER
SITES BUT SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE STRIPING THERE IS JUST
DELINEATED BY DIFFERENT COLORED
OF PAVERS.
BUT OUR TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER
RECOMMENDED THAT OBVIOUSLY THAT
THAT BE PAINTED WITH SOME HIGH
VISIBILITY STRIPING AS WELL AS
INCREASED SIGNAGE FOR BOTH
OF THE DRIVE THRU EXITS THAT
WILL BE WELL ONE WILL BE THE
DRIVE THRU ENTRANCE FOR THE
JIMMY JOHN'S AND THEY EXIT
AROUND THE FRONT AND THEN THIS
ONE WOULD BE EXITING AROUND
TOWARDS THE CLOSEST SIDE
OF STATE STREET THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT.
SO INCREASE SIGNAGE EITHER AN
INCREASED PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS
OR RATHER THE VISIBILITY
OF THOSE AND THAT WAS THAT WAS
HER CONCERNS REGARDING THE
ACCESS TO THE SITE.
THERE ARE NO VEHICULAR CONCERNS
REGARDING ACCESS AND GET THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION THEY ARE
AGAIN THEY ARE INSTALLING EVE
SPACES AS YOU SAW MR MOORE
POINTED OUT THOSE WERE NOT
REQUIRED AT THE ORIGINAL TIME
OF OF APPROVAL FOR THE JIMMY
JOHN'S BUSINESS IN THE FRONT
AND AGAIN THERE'S A VERY SLIGHT
INCREASE TO THE IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE ON THE SITE.
BUT HOWEVER THE THEY OBVIOUSLY
DID SUBMIT A REVISED
CALCULATIONS FOR THAT AND THE
SYSTEM THEY HAVE IN PLACE IS
MORE THAN ADEQUATE TO TO DETAIN
FOR THAT EXTRA AREA.
AND OTHER THAN THAT THERE'S NO
CHANGES, NO OTHER REQUIRED
LANDSCAPING, OTHER ELEMENTS
THAT ARE BEING REMOVED ON THE
SITE AND OBVIOUSLY ADJACENT TO
ANOTHER COMMERCIAL OR WELL
HOTEL AS WELL AS THE RESEARCH
DISTRICT THERE'S NO BUFFERING
WOULD BE REQUIRED ALONG THE
BACK OF THE BUILDING ANYWAY AND
THAT CONCLUDES OUR PRESENTATION
.
OUR STAFF WAS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AND THE CYCLING
ACCOMMODATION.
THANK THANK YOU.
NOW WE MOVE ON TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
PROJECT AT THREE NINE FOUR FIVE
THREE NINE FIVE SEVEN SOUTH
STATE WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RECENT FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH
THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEDIA NINETY NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE THROUGH ACCESSING
THE PUBLIC YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST
IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER SAUV.
I'M GETTING MY TOASTMASTERS
ATTENDANCE SCORE UP TONIGHT
KENGOR AGAIN AS I SEE IT HERE
PETITION IT BASICALLY WANTS TO
RIP AWAY THREE SIDES OF A BRAND
NEW BUILDING REMOVING A QUARTER
OF ONE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
EIGHTY FOUR SQUARE FEET AND
THEN REPLACE IT WITH PAVEMENT
NOT JUST ANY PAVEMENT PAVEMENT
FOR IDLING VEHICLES.
IS THIS A PUBLIC BENEFIT WORTH
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION?
USE BY THIS BODY.
YOU HAVE A PLAN YOU JUST 13
VEHICLES WAITING IN LINE.
I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY AN
UNFORTUNATE VISUAL BUT IT'S
KIND OF A NIGHTMARE SCENARIO
FOR ME.
I AGREE WITH MR YES.
KADIATOU CALLED IN EARLIER
ABOUT THE UNDESIRABILITY OF ANY
DRIVE THROUGH GOING FORWARD IN
THE CITY.
YES.
GAIDEN ELSWORTH PROBABLY THE
MOST CAR CENTRIC PART OF THE
HARBOR HAVE TO MAKE IT EVEN
MORE SO MORE IDLING CARS, MORE
EXHAUST FUMES, MORE EMISSIONS.
THIS PROBLEM IS ALREADY
ASSIGNED TO PARKING SPACES.
I THINK THE PETITIONER CAN LIVE
WITH THAT.
BACK IN APRIL YOU REJECTED THE
UNION'S REQUEST FOR A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED FOR ITS PERMIT
ROAD DRIVE YOU QUITE PROPERLY.
I SPOKE AGAINST THAT TOO.
I FEEL THAT TO BE CONSISTENT
AND REJECT THIS PLAN AS WELL.
I KNOW IN THE GREAT SCHEME
OF THINGS, YOU KNOW WE'VE GOT
WARS, GUN VIOLENCE, RACISM,
CLIMATE CHANGE THIS SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOUTH IS NOT SUCH A
BIG DEAL.
I RECOGNIZE THAT BUT IT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN CONTROL.
IT'S ONE MINOR ATROCITY WE CAN
REJECT.
SO I URGE YOU TO DO THAT.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK MEXICALI.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE REMOTELY
THERE IS ONE SPEAKER MADAM
CHAIR ADAM YES.
COMMITTEE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AGAIN FOURTEEN
FIFTEEN FAGERSTROM AS I
MENTIONED EARLIER IN A MORE
GENERAL SENSE I AM OPPOSED TO
ANY NEW DRIVE THROUGH TINTINARA
BUT THIS IS ABOUT A SPECIFIC
PROPOSAL BEFORE YOU TONIGHT I
MAY BE COMING WE CAN DRIVE
THROUGH THIS BUT YET AGAIN WE
HAVE A PETITION PETITIONER
BRINGING FORWARD A PROPOSAL TO
BUILD YET ANOTHER NEW DRIVE.
THIS IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YES, IT IS UP TO THE PETITIONER
TO SHOW YOU WHY YOU SHOULD
APPROVE THIS DRIVE HERE TONIGHT
.
WHAT IS SO SPECIAL ABOUT IT?
WHY SHOULD THEY BE GIVEN A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION LOOKING AT
THE SITE PLANS?
I'M NOT SEEING IT.
IT'S JUST ANOTHER SUBURBAN
STYLE DRIVE THROUGH LIKE ALL
THE REST OF THEM IF WE'RE
SERIOUS ABOUT OUR ROLES AS A
CITY WE NEED TO DO BETTER.
WE A CLIMATE CRISIS WE HAVE
PLEDGED TO CUT VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED HALF A TWO ZERO WE ARE
TRAFFIC VIOLENCE CRISIS.
WE WANT TO ELIMINATE PSA
CRASHES VISION ZERO.
WE WON'T GET THERE IF WE KEEP
BUILDING CAR CENTRIC
DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THIS.
BUT IF WE DON'T GET SERIOUS
ABOUT TRANSFORMING OUR ROADS
INTO LIVABLE SPACES USABLE BY
PEOPLE WITH ALL MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION USE, THE
EXISTING SITE IS ALREADY CAR
CENTRIC.
TO BE FAIR.
BUT THERE'S NO REASON TO MAKE
IT WORSE.
ANOTHER CAR DOES NOT GET US
THERE MORE DISCRETION TO DECIDE
WHETHER OR NOT TO ALLOW DRIVERS
TO BE ACCEPTABLE USE FOR THIS
DRIVE THRU.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND I WILL READ BOTH MOTIONS
TOGETHER THE UNIVERSITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER
HEARING ALL INTERESTED PERSONS
AND REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION FINDS A PETITION TO
SUBSTANTIALLY MEET THE
STANDARDS OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TWO
NINE POINT FIVE SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS APPROVED THE THREE
NINE FOUR NINE TO THREE NINE
FIVE SEVEN SOUTH STATE STREET
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE FOR A
DRIVE THRU FACILITY THIS IS
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS.
ONE WILL BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OF COMMERCIAL USES IN THE AREA
AND TO THE PROPOSED USE WILL
NOT ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION THE PROPOSED USE IS
CONSISTENT WITH OTHER
SURROUNDING USES TRAFFIC IMPACT
AND MOTION NO TO THE INNER CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
APPROVES THE THREE NINE FOUR
NINE TO THREE NINE FIVE SEVEN
SOUTH STATE STREET SITE PLAN
INCLUDING A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION THAT ALLOWS
EXISTING TREES JUST OUTSIDE THE
RIGHT OF WAY TO BE COUNTED AS
REQUIRED.
STREET TREES MOVE BY A SECOND
BY COMMISSIONER DASH DISCUSSION
SO TO THE PETITION I JUST WANT
TO CHECK A COUPLE OF THINGS
WHEN YOU IN THIS PROPOSAL YOU
ARE PROPOSING TO DECONSTRUCT
THE BUILDING THAT SITS BEHIND
THE CONVERGENCE THAT'S
CURRENTLY UNOCCUPIED OR ARE YOU
CAN YOU JUST EXPLAIN THAT I
LOOKED AT
THE SITE PLAN AND I
LOOKED AT THE RENDERINGS BUT I
JUST WANTED A LITTLE MORE
CLARITY.
SO THE THE WHOLE BUILDING IS
BEING CONSTRUCTED JUST THE
NORTHERN EIGHT FEET OF THE
BUILDING WOULD BE REMOVED.
SO THE TEMPORARY SUPPORTS WOULD
BE PUT IN PLACE TO MAINTAIN THE
BALANCE OF THE ROOF STRUCTURE
AND THEN THAT NORTHERN EIGHT
FEET WOULD BE DECONSTRUCTED AND
THEN A NEW NORTHERN BEARING
WALL WOULD BE BUILT.
OK, SO NOT THE WHOLE THING IS
BEEN DICTATED JUST THAT EIGHT
FEET AND THAT SO THAT RATHER
THAN HAVING A VACANT BUILDING
THERE WITH AT LEAST THE
BUILDING AND CERTAINLY IF WE
POSTPONE TONIGHT I CAN BRING AT
THE NEXT HEARING THE LEASING
AGENT WHO'S BEEN TRYING TO
LEASE IT FOR THE LAST FIVE
YEARS AND SHE CAN TELL YOU THAT
THEY'VE HAD PHARMACIES AND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND
BAKERIES AND COFFEE SHOPS WHO
HAD ALL THESE THERE IF THEY HAD
TO DRIVE THROUGH BUT NO ONE IS
THERE WITHOUT IT.
OK, AND THEN THE EGRESS AND THE
MOVEMENT OF CARS IS THAT
PRIMARILY GOING TO COME IN
THROUGH STATE OR IS IT ALSO ON
ELSWORTH?
NO, THE ONLY ENTRANCE TO THE
PROPERTY IS ON STATE.
OK, SO THAT TO CHANGE THAT OK
SO THEN THAT IS SITTING IN THAT
TRAFFIC CIRCLE SO MAYBE TO
STAFF IN THE TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
THAT TRAFFIC CIRCLE IS LIKE THE
NUMBER ONE ACCIDENT IN
SOUTHEASTERN MICHIGAN NOW.
SO LIKE HOW DID THAT COME INTO
THIS CONVERSATION BECAUSE
POTENTIALLY THERE WILL BE MORE
COMMERCE THERE WHICH WILL BE
PUSHING PEOPLE INTO THAT FIGHT
BOTH EGRESS AND YOU KNOW,
TRYING TO GET IN AND OUT OF THE
SPACE.
AND I KNOW COMING FROM COSTCO
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW HOW TO WHAT
YOUR SIGN MEANS.
SO AS YOU MAKE THAT MICHIGAN
OUT ONTO STATE, PEOPLE ARE
TRYING TO GET OVER SO THAT THEY
CAN GET INTO THE FAR RIGHT LANE
SO THAT THEY CAN GET ON NINETY
FOUR SO THEY CAN EXIT THE CITY.
SO I'M JUST SURPRISED AT THE
ONLY FEEDBACK WE GOT FROM
TRAFFIC WAS STRIPEY TO MAKE IT
EASIER FOR CAR STORAGE.
SO I, I DID TRY OK I LOOKED
PRETTY DETAILED IN THE TRAFFIC
STUDY BUT THAT'S ONE THING I
DIDN'T NOTICE TODAY WHETHER IT
WAS WHETHER OR NOT IT TOOK INTO
ACCOUNT THAT THE TRAFFIC WITHIN
THE ROUNDABOUT I CAN'T ANSWER
THAT RIGHT NOW.
I DO I CAN OPEN THE FILE AND
SEE IF I CAN GET THAT ANSWER
RIGHT NOW BUT I KNOW AGAIN SO
IF IT IS OPEN I CAN COME BACK
FOR SURE AND GET THAT ANSWER
FOR YOU AND GET TO ANSWER IF I
CAN'T FIND IT RIGHT NOW AND I
CAN CERTAINLY TELL YOU THAT I
CAN HAVE THE TRAFFIC ENGINEER
HERE THAT TRAFFIC ENGINEER
WORKS JUST WEST OF THAT
ROUNDABOUT AND SURE HE'S
INTIMATELY FAMILIAR WITH THE
FUNCTIONALITY AND THE
GENERATION THAT THE BUSINESS
WOULD REQUIRE.
YEAH, THERE'S A TRIP GENERALLY
.
I MEAN THERE'S JUST A LOT
OF CARS THAT ARE MOVING THROUGH
THAT INTERSECTION ALL OF THE
TIME.
IT SEEMS SO DID I HEAR YOU
CORRECTLY SAYING THAT AS BEST
AND THIS HAS BEEN FIVE YEARS OR
SO FIVE YEARS YOU HAVE YOU
BUILT IT YOU HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE
TO LEASE IT AND IT IS YOUR
BELIEF THAT THE ONLY WAY THAT
YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO LEASE IT
IS BY HAVING A DRIVE THROUGH.
YEAH, THAT IS THE THAT IS THE
BELIEF OF THE LEASING AGENT
WHO'S BEEN TRYING TO LEASE IT
FOR THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
HE COULD HAVE AT LEAST SEVERAL
TIMES OVER THAT THE DRIVE.
AND SO THEN SINCE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE WHAT IS WHAT IS
THE EXCEPTION HERE LIKE WHY IS
IT BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO GIVE
YOU THE ANSWERS I'D LIKE TO
WHAT YOUR ANSWERS ARE FOR.
WELL, I THINK IT'S CERTAINLY
IT'S IN THE BEST INTERESTS
OF THE CITY NOT HAVE VACANT
DISUSED BUILDINGS.
IT'S BETTER TO HAVE VIABLE
BUSINESSES AND BETTER TAX
REVENUE AND JUST A BETTER
OVERALL AFFECT OF THE CITY
WHERE THEY HAVE VACANT EMPTY
BUILDINGS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, I
HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS.
SOME OF THEM MIGHT BE BETTER
ANSWERED ON THE WHOLE TEAM IS
HERE IF WE POSTPONE BUT ONE
QUESTION I HAD WHICH I IS THAT
THERE SEEM TO ME THREE DISTINCT
UNITS GOT SICK WITHIN THAT
BUILDING BUT IT LOOKS LIKE FROM
THE MAP IS IS IT IS IT MORE
THAN ONE SO IT WAS BUILT THE
SHELL WAS BUILT WITH THREE
ENTRANCE DOORS ALONG THAT SE IN
ANTICIPATION THAT IT COULD HAVE
BEEN THREE DIFFERENT TENDENCIES
BUT WHICHEVER WHENEVER THERE'S
A TENANT THAT SIGNS A LEASE
THAT COULD BE RECONFIGURED,
THOSE DOORS DON'T NECESSARILY
HAVE TO STAY WHERE THEY ARE
LEASED BY A SINGLE THEY WOULD
TAKE OUT TWO DOORS BUT THEM
THEY TAKE OUT THE MIDDLE DOOR
TO KEEP IT AND IT'S FLEXIBLE.
BUT THE DRIVE THAT IT WOULD IF
THERE WERE THREE TO DRIVE
THROUGH WOULD ONLY SERVE AS ONE
OF THE RIGHTS TO ALL ITS
SERVICE.
THE WINDOW FOR THE TRAFFIC
WOULD BE AT THE WESTERN END
OF THE BUILDING.
SO SO CLOSE TO THE JIMMY
JOHN'S.
YEAH AND WE DON'T KNOW THAT
EVER BE THIRTEEN CARS IN A ROW.
WE JUST WANTED TO PRODUCE A
DOCUMENT THAT WAS EVIDENCE THAT
THERE'S PLENTY OF ROOM TO STACK
WITHOUT INTERFERING WITH THE
TRAFFIC IN THE PARKING ON HIS
MOM AND I AND I'LL POINT OUT
THAT CARS FOR ABOUT A DECADE
NOW EVEN IF THEY'RE NOT
ELECTRIC THEY DON'T IDLE, THEY
STOP AND THEY DON'T PRODUCE
FUMES WHILE I WOULD I WOULD BE
CURIOUS TO HEAR FROM THE
LEASING AGENT YOU MAY MAYBE
JUST LIKE WHAT SPECIFIC
CHALLENGES ARE ALSO GOOD.
MAYBE THIS IS A QUESTION THAT
WHEN I WAS LOOKING AT THE
APPLICATION IN THE CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION IT'S DATED TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THAT'S DIDN'T REALLY
TAKE THIS LONG TO BRING THIS
YEAR THE PETITION.
YES IT'S IT'S BEEN A LONG
JOURNEY OF REVISIONS AND
CAUSING ON THE BEHALF OF THE
MULTIPLE KINDS OF TRAFFIC
STUDIES.
SO YEAH A DATE WRONG.
NO IT'S THE LAST IT'S OUR LAST
PROJECT OUR SOFTWARE SYSTEM TOO
SO HOPEFULLY WE'RE GOING TO GET
THIS DONE ONE WAY OR ANOTHER.
YEAH, I'LL JUST NOTE LIKE I
DON'T LIKE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USER APPLICATION TO
BE ALL THAT COMPELLING FOR
DRIVE THROUGH BUT I WOULD I
WOULD LOVE TO HEAR MORE FROM
PEOPLE WITH MORE EXPERIENCE IN
LEASING RETAIL AS TO WHETHER OR
NOT A DRIVE THRU WOULD ACTUALLY
ENHANCE THE LEASE ABILITY
OF THIS BUILDING THAT SEGWAY
COMMISSIONER.
SURE WOULD HAVE TO COSTAR
CURRENT LISTING IT HAS BEEN
LISTED FOR SIXTY SIX MONTHS AND
ONE DAYS SO CONSTRUCTED IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN THIS HAS SET
FEIGHAN FOR THE ENTIRE TIME
DOING RETAIL LEASING.
I WILL SAY THAT THE ACTUAL
PRESENCE OF A DRIVE THRU DOES
IMPROVE THE LEASE ABILITY.
IT'S NOT A GUARANTEE BUT IT
DOES IMPROVE THE LIKELIHOOD
THAT IN LIKE CHIPOTLE STARBUCKS
THEY HAVE OPTED TOWARDS REALLY
FOCUSING ON DRIVE THRU
ESPECIALLY DURING COVID
OBVIOUSLY IT IS UNETHICAL TO
SOME OF THE VALUES WE HAVE
PRONOUNCED AT THIS PARTICULAR
TABLE BUT I WILL SAY THAT IT
WILL LIKELY INCREASE THE
PROBABILITY.
I DON'T IMAGINE THAT A BUILDING
OWNER WANTS TO SAY I'M JUST
GOING TO CHOP THE BACK HALF
OF MY BUILDING OFF.
IT IS ONLY AFTER FIVE YEARS
OF SITTING VACANT PAYING TAXES
AND PROBABLY APPEALING TAXES.
I DON'T LOOK THE TAX RECORDS
BUT MY GUESS IS THIS ISN'T
QUITE A DARK BOX THEORY.
IT'S NOT A BIG ENOUGH ONE.
BUT MY MY GUESS IS THAT AFTER A
CERTAIN LEVEL YOU CONTINUE TO
APPEAL SIMPLY ON THE BASIS THAT
YOU HAVE NO INCOME.
ALL YOU'RE DOING IS INCURRING
EXPENSES.
SO I WOULD URGE KIND OF ON A
CONTEXTUAL BASIS WHEN YOU LOOK
AT US THERE'S A BELL TIRE.
THERE'S A TIM HORTON'S WITH A
DRIVE THRU TACO BELL.
I'M CERTAINLY I THINK THE THE
PART THAT I'M SOMEWHAT MY
FEEDBACK FOR YOU GUYS WOULD BE
TO SAY WHAT IS THE PRONOUNCED
PUBLIC BENEFIT ARISING FROM
THIS CONTEXTUALLY AND SO I WILL
SAY TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
THAT THE FEEDBACK WOULD BE THE
PRESENCE OF A DRIVE THRU WOULD
LIKELY INCREASE LEE'S ABILITY
FOR CERTAIN RETAIL TENANTS,
POSSIBLY NOT OTHERS BUT THAT
THIS DECISION TO UNDERTAKE SUCH
A RENOVATION WOULD NOT BE THE
TOP CHOICE FOR A LANDLORD RIGHT
.
THEY'D THEY'D RATHER PUT THE
MONEY INTO TENANT IMPROVEMENT
ALLOWANCES AND SAY, YOU KNOW,
IF I COULD JUST FINANCIALLY
INCENTIVIZE THE TALENT TO GO
THERE AT ITS CURRENT BUILDING
FOOTPRINT SO FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF UNDERSTANDING
WHAT IS THE HIGHEST AND BEST
USE, WHAT IS THE YOU KNOW FROM
EVEN I WILL ALSO SAY THIS THAT
THERE IS CARBON EMISSIONS THAT
COME FROM UNDERTAKING SUCH
CONSTRUCTION.
RIGHT.
THE TRANSPORT, THE DEMOLITION
AND SO LOOKING AT IT
HOLISTICALLY IT CAN BE SOMEWHAT
CHALLENGING.
SO I WOULD CHALLENGE AND
ENCOURAGE YOU GUYS TO REALLY
SAY HEY, THIS IS THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT.
THIS IS HOW MUCH TAX REVENUE
THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE.
I AM CERTAINLY SYMPATHETIC TO
THE IDEA THAT IT SAT VACANT FOR
FIVE YEARS THAT THAT IS NOT AN
EASY THING TO BASICALLY ABSORB
AND LOOKING AT THIS EVEN IT
LOOKS LIKE THEY'VE BEEN THROUGH
A FEW DIFFERENT LISTING AGENTS
AT LEAST HILL.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY FEEDBACK.
I UNDERSTAND HOW WE HAVE LOOKED
AT THIS IN THE PAST FOR DRIVE
THRU THIS IS PROBABLY A LAST
RESORT SAYING GUYS I'VE BEEN
TRYING IT'S IT'S WAY IMBEDDED
IN THE BACKS OF VERY AWKWARD
LOOKING PASSELL THERE'S NO
INGRESS FROM THE ELLSWORTH'S
SIDE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I NEED
TO BE ABLE TO PUT THE PARCEL TO
PRODUCTIVE USE.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY FEEDBACK.
IT WOULD JUST REALLY BEHOOVE
THE PETITIONER TO REALLY I
THINK ARTICULATE THAT PUBLIC
BENEFIT.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT FEEDBACK IS
HELPFUL.
THANKS IF I COULD ADD TO THE
DISCUSSION ONE FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE STOP THE NOTICING
ERROR ALONG WITH WOULD
ENCOURAGE THOSE TO BE POSTPONED
ON THAT BASIS.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT IT WAS
OVERLOOKED.
SOMETIMES IT HAPPENS WITH WITH
POSTCARDS DO GO OUT SO THAT
DOES SEEM LIKE A GOOD ENOUGH
REASON IN ADDITION TO HAVING A
FULLER BODY TO CONSIDER THAT.
BUT I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO DRAW
THE
COMMISSION'S ATTENTION TO
PAGE TWO SEVEN OF THE UDC WHERE
WE OUTLINED THE CRITERIA FOR
APPROVAL OF THE USE OF THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND
PUBLIC BENEFIT IS NOT AN
EXPLICIT REQUIREMENT TO BE
ARTICULATED.
THERE IS A KIND OF FIVE POINT
TEST THAT WAS ALSO LAID OUT IN
THE STAFF REPORT FOR THIS ITEM
AND THOSE INCLUDE TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE GENERAL
OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY MASTER
PLAN TO BE DESIGNED,
CONSTRUCTED, OPERATED,
MAINTAINED IN A MANNER THAT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH THE EXISTING
AND PLANNED CHARACTER OF THE
GENERAL VICINITY CONSISTENT
WITH THE GENERAL CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD CONSIDERING
POPULATION DENSITY DESIGN
SCALABLE INTENSITY AND
CHARACTER OF ACTIVITY NOT
DETRIMENTAL TO THE USE PEACEFUL
ENJOYMENT, ECONOMIC VALUE OR
DEVELOPMENT OF NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY OR THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AREA IN GENERAL AND NOT HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
SO I WOULD I JUST GREATLY
ENCOURAGE THE DISCUSSION TO
REVOLVE AROUND THE OUTLINED
CRITERIA THAT'S IN THE CITY
CODE .
GOOD COLLEGIALLY THANK YOU FOR
THAT.
I WAS ACTUALLY LOOKING
FRANTICALLY THERE SIXTY EIGHT
NO SPECIAL SO I WAS LIKE OH
WHAT'S THE CRITERIA AND TO
AGAIN THAT'S VERY HELPFUL.
AGAIN OUR JOB IS TO APPLY THE
UDC AS WRITTEN AND FOR THE
FOLKS AT SPOK CAN GARBA FOR
EXAMPLE TALKING ABOUT THE
CREDIT UNION FOR EXAMPLE AND I
DO THINK THAT THE DISTINCTION
MIGHT BE THAT WE HAVE I BELIEVE
OTHERS AT THE TABLE BROUGHT UP
THE METHODS OF FUTURE
DESIGNATION AS A POTENTIAL ONE
.
IN FACT WE DO HAVE THAT
LEGISLATIVE TEXT HERE FROM CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTING US TO BEGIN
THAT PROCESS.
SO I WOULD SAY THAT THAT'S
PROBABLY THE CONTEXTUAL
DISTINGUISHING FACTOR BUT IT'S
VERY HELPFUL.
AGAIN, GENERALLY I'M TRYING TO
BE THE ONE REFERRING TO THE
ACTUAL TEXT OF THE UDC.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR THAT
REMINDER A PROBLEM AND THIS IS
ALLOWED IN HALF OF OUR MIXED
USE ZONING DISTRICTS AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YES, I'M NOT MISTAKEN TOOK A
LOOK AT THAT EARLIER.
SO ALTHOUGH THERE MAY BE
INTENTIONS OF THE COMMISSION TO
MOVE IN A DIFFERENT DIRECTION,
IT IS AVAILABLE FOR PEOPLE
WITHIN THE CODE AND I THINK IN
THE SPIRIT OF FAIRNESS IT'S
GOOD TO JUST REMEMBER THAT HAS
NOT BEEN REMOVED BY POLICY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OR JUST JUST
TO I'M NOT SURE IF THEIR POINTS
ARE QUESTIONS BUT HMM.
I THINK I REMEMBER FROM THE
LAST TIME WE TALKED ABOUT A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE I THINK I
REMEMBER HAVING IT EXPLAINED
THAT ACTUALLY I THINK WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT TO
MAKE CERTAIN THINGS IN T7
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE OR NOT.
I REMEMBER THAT SO AND I
REMEMBER HAVING TO EXPLAIN THAT
THE IDEA OF A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
IS THAT IT'S A USE THAT YOU
THINK IS OK IN SOME CONTEXTS
BUT NOT OTHERS.
IS THAT OK?
SO THE POINT ABOUT CONSISTENCY
WAS RAISED AND THAT WE DENIED
ONE OF THESE ON PLIMOTH BUT I
THINK THAT WHATEVER WHENEVER WE
MAKE OUR DECISION ON THIS WHEN
WE WE MIGHT THINK ABOUT WHAT'S
DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS CONTEXT
BECAUSE I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
IT IS NOT INCONSISTENT OF US TO
APPROVE THEM SOMETIMES TO
APPROVE A DRIVE THROUGH
SOMETIMES AND NOT OTHERS
BECAUSE IT'S IN THE NATURE
OF ESPECIALLY PERCEPTION USE
THAT YOU APPROVE THEM SOMETIMES
BUT NOT OTHERS OTHERWISE IT
WOULD SIMPLY BAN THEM AND IF WE
WANT TO SIMPLY BAN THEM WE
COULD DO THAT.
BUT WE HAVEN'T YET SO AND I
MEAN IF COUNCIL WOULD GO ON SO
IT IS IT IS POSSIBLE FOR US TO
SAY YES TO ONE AND NO TO
ANOTHER OR WHATEVER ELSE THE
THE ONE CRITERION THAT I THINK
HAS BEEN BROUGHT UP BY US IN
THE PAST AND THIS EVENING BY A
COUPLE OF CALLERS IS THE WOULD
FIT UNDER THE QUESTION OF THE
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
SO WE CAN THINK ABOUT THAT TOO
BECAUSE WE HAVE SOME TIME TO
THINK AND YEP, OK, I THINK
THAT'S A THAT THOSE ARE MY TWO
POINTS FOR THE DISCUSSION WHICH
I WOULD MOTION TO POSTPONE THIS
PARTICULAR PROPOSAL AT THIS
TIME.
IS THAT APPROPRIATE?
I DON'T KNOW IF FURTHER
DISCUSSION A STEP WOULD
RECOMMEND JULY 18TH AS PROPOSED
DATE FOR POSTPONEMENT.
I WOULD MOTION TO POSTPONE THIS
UNTIL JULY 18TH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER THIS DISCUSSION
ABOUT POSTPONEMENT THE QUESTION
OF WHICH JUST QUESTION SO THE
MOTION TO POSTPONE SITS AT THE
TABLE SO IT ONLY NEEDS A
MAJORITY NOT ALL SIX VOTES TO
POSTPONE.
SO THE MAJORITY OF THE
COMMISSION SO THAT WOULD BE
FOUR SO HALF PLUS THE MINOR
THINGS YOU WOULD NEED FIVE
PEOPLE TO POSTPONE.
OH YOU'RE SAYING IT'S FIVE.
WE CAN CHECK THE BYLAWS BUT I
JUST WANT TO KNOW WHIPPING
VOTES I THINK IT WOULD BE A
MAJORITY PRESENCE.
THIS IS NOT ON A PETITION.
SO YOU HAVE A QUORUM OF MEMBERS
OF THE FIVE MEMBERS HERE.
SO IT'D BE THE MAJORITY
OF PRESENT.
YOU ARE NOT THIS WOULD NOT BE
THE DEFINITIVE ACTION PETITION.
SO SO YEAH THAT'S RIGHT.
I WOULD GUESS IT WOULD BE THE
MAJORITY THAT WOULD REQUIRE
FOUR OK WHICH STAFF WOULD
RECOMMEND AS TO MANAGER KELLY
ARTICULATED FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON MOTION OK VOTE ON THE
AMENDMENT ON THE MOTION TO
POSTPONE THE PRESENT PETITION
TO JULY 18TH COMMISSIONER WISCH
NO COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES
SURELY YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
YES I'M SURE OF IT YES THE
MOTION CARRIES OK BACK TO THE
RIGHT TO THE NO WE'RE DONE.
THAT'S IT.
WE DON'T KNOW THAT WE DON'T
HAVE OH GOSH YEAH GREAT.
YES BOTH ARE TAKEN TOGETHER AND
NOW WE MOVE TO PUBLIC COMMENTS
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING ANY ISSUE AT ALL AND
THAT SENTENCE THERE I WILL
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PESTANA IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE OF RACE HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB BANK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND END YOUR MEETING NINETY
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS SO ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME
BEG YOUR
INDULGENCE FOR THE FOURTH TIME
TONIGHT.
I'M NOT WITH ELECTRIFICATION.
YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND WHERE WE
WERE AT THE END OF JANUARY 2021
AT CITY COUNCIL.
THIS WAS A VERY CONTROVERSIAL
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE WAS A LOT OF NEIGHBORHOOD
OPPOSITION.
IT WAS A VERY DIFFERENT CITY
COUNCIL THAT WAS MUCH MORE
SKEPTICAL OF DEVELOPMENT AND
ONE OF THE KEY PROMISES THAT
WERE MADE THAT PUSHED THIS OVER
THE EDGE TO APPROVAL WITH THE
ELECTRIFICATION PERMIT.
AND I'M GOING TO READ YOU PART
OF THE LETTER FROM THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT
OF LANGUAGE COMPANIES THAT WAS
SENT TO MR. KAWALSKY JUST FIVE
DAYS BEFORE THAT VOTE.
PEOPLE, PLEASE I'M NOT WITH MR.
KAWASAKI.
PLEASE FIND OUT THE COMPANY'S
RESPONSE TO A REQUEST MADE BY
THE CITY COUNCIL REGARDING
ELECTRICAL HEAT AND LAQUIDARA,
THE PROJECT THE ISSUE IS
BROUGHT UP AT THE PLANNING
MEETING THAT'S HERE AND RIGHT
AT THAT TIME COMMITTED TO ALL
ELECTRIC STOVES AND TO
INVESTIGATE THE STEPS REQUIRED
TO PROVIDE ALL ELECTRIC HEAT.
FOLLOWING OUR INVESTIGATION,
LOCKWOOD IS COMMITTED TO DOING
ALL ELECTRIC HEAT AND THERE'S
SOME MORE ABOUT THE MISSION
REQUIREMENTS BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE
THEY CHECKED WITH MR. AND MR.
WELLS.
OK, THIS IS POSSIBLE TO ME
BECAUSE WE HAVE A HOUSING
COMMISSION THAT ALSO DEPENDS ON
MR. FUNDING HEAVILY AND THEY'RE
GOING FORWARD I BELIEVE WITH
SEVERAL ELECTRIC DEVELOPMENTS.
I SEE COMMISSIONER DESH NODDING
APPARENTLY I MEAN TO ME THIS IS
JUST A BAIT SWITCH I'M REALLY
OFF AND I FEEL TOTAL FUTILITY
ON THIS PART BECAUSE THIS
WASN'T WASN'T WRITTEN IN TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ON
THIS PROJECT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO ABOUT
IT BUT YOU KNOW, EXCEPT RAISE
CITY COUNCIL I REALLY FEEL
BETRAYED AND MAYBE MAYBE THERE
IS SOMETHING GOING ON WITH
MISTER THAT I'M NOT AWARE
OF HERE THAT WOULD PROVIDE
EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR
THE DEVELOPER.
BUT SHORT OF THAT, THIS IS THIS
IS JUST UNACCEPTABLE.
SO I DON'T KNOW I'VE GOTTEN
THAT OFF MY CHEST LIKE
EVERYTHING ELSE TONIGHT.
SO THANK YOU.
PROVIDING ME A PSYCHOLOGICAL
AUDIT AND AN AUDIENCE FOR MY
RANTINGS AGAIN.
BUT THIS ONE IS REALLY, YOU
KNOW, OFF OUT OF THE PANEL.
THIS THIS IS BEHAVIOR THAT I'VE
NEVER SEEN BEFORE IN THIS BODY.
IT'S REALLY UPSET.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. C. NO ONE IN THE
ROOM OR ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS REMOTELY THERE ARE
NO HANDS.
ALL CLOSING PUBLIC HEARING
WE'LL MOVE ON TO COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY CHARLENE I'LL BE
QUICK.
I JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT I
WANT I'M VERY SYMPATHETIC TO
MR. DE HAAZ DISCUSSIONS THAT
HE'S BEEN LIVING THERE SINCE
1959 AND SO THE DEPTH
OF HISTORY IN THE SENSE
OF PLACE THAT YOU BUILD IS I
WANT TO SAY THAT I'M I'M VERY
STUBBORN, SYMPATHETIC TO THAT
AND CERTAINLY AND ONE TO
CLARIFY ALSO THAT WHERE I SAW
THIS WAS THAT THIS BEAUTY WAS
ALMOST CLERICAL IN NATURE GIVEN
THAT BULMER STANDARD THAT WE
USE FOR MEASUREMENTS ARE WITHIN
A TWO PERCENT TOLERANCE.
AND SO YOU COULD HAVE AN
ARCHITECT WITH THE SAME
TRAINING.
THEY MIGHT GET TWO VERY SMALL
DIFFERENT MEASUREMENTS AND SO
THIS KIND OF MEASUREMENT AGAIN
IT ALMOST SEEMS LIKE A
TECHNICALITY.
I AGREE WITH YOU.
I HAVE TO OBVIOUSLY LOOK INTO
THE EMAIL.
MR. GARBA.
IT SO I CERTAINLY SHARE YOUR
FRUSTRATION.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO MENTION
THAT THE THAT MR. DE HART'S
COMMENTS DID NOT GO UNHEARD
THAT THAT I TRULY FELT AGAIN
SYMPATHETIC ABOUT SOMEBODY WHO
IS THEIR HOME, A LIFELONG HOME.
SO JUST TO SAY THAT I'LL BE
TRYING TO LOOK MORE INTO THIS
EMAIL CHAIN THAT YOU JUST
RAISED.
THANKS.
WHICH I THINK I RAISED THIS
BEFORE BUT IF I HAVEN'T I'D
LIKE TO RAISE IT AGAIN RIGHT
NOW WHICH IS I THINK WE AS A
COMMISSION SHOULD CONSIDER
FIGURING OUT IF WE CAN ASK
COUNCIL TO APPROVE ALTERNATES
FOR PLANNING COMMISSION BECAUSE
THE BECAUSE THE MAJORITY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS WORK IN THE FIELD
AND OFTEN FIND THEMSELVES IN
NEED OF RECUSAL AS WELL AS
TRAVEL FAMILY, ALL THOSE OTHER
KINDS OF THINGS.
AND IT IS NOT I THINK IT'S
INSIDE OUR PURVIEW TO ELECT
ALTERNATES WHO WOULD
POTENTIALLY JUST BE AVAILABLE
TO SERVE WHEN WE DON'T HAVE A
FULL MAJORITY.
AND I THINK IT TAKES PRESSURE
OFF THE PETITIONERS.
IT TAKES PRESSURE OFF OF THE
COMMISSION AND IT ACTIVATES
MAYBE A HANDFUL OF ADDITIONAL
PEOPLE WHO WON'T HAVE TO SERVE
AT EVERY MEETING THAT CAN ALLOW
US TO MOVE OUR BUSINESS FORWARD
.
SO I DON'T KNOW THE PROCEDURE
FOR DOING THAT, WHETHER THAT IS
A CONVERSATION WITH STAFF THAT
COMES TO THE COMMISSION AS AN
AMENDMENT TO OUR BYLAWS OR IF
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE DISCUSS
WITH THE CHAIR AND A
RECOMMENDATION TO COUNCIL OR
DIRECTLY TO THE MAYOR.
BUT I WOULD STRONGLY RECOMMEND
THAT WE CONSIDER HAVING
ALTERNATES AND IT IS NOT
UNHEARD OF FOR A PLANNING
COMMISSION TO HAVE ALTERNATE
MEMBERS A WIGNALL COMMENT AND A
MANAGER ONE IS HAPPY TO BRING
THAT UP WITH OUR CITY ATTORNEY
TO SEE WHAT COULD BE DISCOVERED
IN TERMS OF LANGUAGE IF IT
DOESN'T EXIST IN YOUR BYLAWS OR
SHOULD BE ADDED TO ADDRESS THAT
THAT COMMENT.
SO THANK YOU.
OK, I HAVE ONE I'M GOING TO
JUST FOR THE RECORD I DON'T
HAVE AN IMMEDIATE URGENCY FOR
THIS RELATIVE TO A LOT OF OUR
HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS BUT I THINK IT DOES
RELATE WHICH IS PARTICULAR USE
TO PARKING MAXIMUMS HOW WE
ALLOCATE THEM AND DRIVE THROUGH
SO I THINK WE JUST NEED TO
START LOOKING BACK AT CAR
STORAGE AND MOVEMENT IN OUR
CITY AND PRIVATE LAND.
SO PROPOSAL TO LOOK AT CARS
BEGRUDGINGLY ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE
THE COMMON PARKING MAXIMUMS ARE
IF THEY'RE NOT ON YOUR YOURS
OFFICIAL WORK PLAN THEY ARE
DEFINITELY A LIST MAINTAINED BY
MY STAFF.
THERE ARE SOME AS YOU KNOW,
LARGE PROJECTS THAT WE ARE
FRONT LOADING OUR ATTENTION ON
TO INCLUDING THE REZONING
OF THE PLYMOUTH AND WASHTENAW
QUARTERS WHICH HAS BEEN
REPEATEDLY REQUESTED BY THE
SAME BODIES.
AND ANOTHER TAKE TO IT IS IT IS
CONTINUE TO BE ACKNOWLEDGED.
THANK YOU.
I DID THIS ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE GO TO ADJOURNMENT,
MOVE BY MOTION SECONDED BY
KATZMANN BRITISH ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY AY WE ARE ADJOURNED